At least 17 people were killed and more than 100 injured
after an explosion struck an office building in the Bangladeshi capital's
commercial district on Tuesday, police and medics said. The cause of the blast remained unclear but fatal building
fires and explosions are common in Bangladesh, where safety enforcement is
often lax. The blast shook the lower floors of a seven-story building
in Gulistan, a major hub for wholesale goods in Dhaka shortly before 5 pm (1100
GMT). Several floors of the building and the side walls were
destroyed in the explosion, which sent rubble and splinters flying into crowded
streets. "At least 17 people have died, including two
women," police inspector Bacchu Mia told AFP. More than 112 people were treated for head wounds, fractures
and other injuries at the Dhaka Medical College Hospital, hospital director
Nazmul Islam told AFP. "The pattern of the injuries shows that it was a huge
explosion," he said, adding that hundreds of doctors and nurses were
mobilized. He said some injured people were also sent to other
hospitals in the city. Even though rescuers got to the scene within seven minutes
of the blast, the extent of the damage has hampered their efforts to reach
people who may still be stuck inside, according to Fire Department Chief
Brigadier General Main Uddin. "It’s risky to enter the building now," he said.
"We needed reinforcements for columns and beams to continue rescue
(efforts) on the ground floor and the underground," Uddin said. "There is still the possibility of people stuck inside
the building," he said. He added that there was no gas line under the building and
no sign of explosives. "We are trying to find the reason (for the
blast)," he said. Anxious relatives crowded the blast site looking for missing
loved ones. A bus driver caught in the blast said 30 of his passengers
were injured when his vehicle was passing the building as the blast hit. "I heard a loud explosion and then I was hit in the
head by a flying object," he told reporters. Another witness said people were trapped on the second,
fourth, and fifth floors of the building before firefighters arrived and rushed
them to the hospital. The country's health minister Zahid Maleque visited the injured
in the hospital and told reporters that most of the fatalities were caused by
head injuries. No substantial fire broke out in the building, which housed
dozens of warehouses, shops selling bathroom fittings and other commercial
spaces. "Our officers are investigating whether it was an act
of sabotage or an accident," Dhaka police commissioner Khandaker Golam
Faruq told reporters. The military also sent its bomb disposal unit, Rashedul
Alam, an army spokesperson said. Explosions and fires due to gas cylinders, faulty air
conditioners and bad electrical wiring are frequent in Bangladeshi buildings
and factories. An explosion at an oxygen plant near the southern port city
of Chittagong on Saturday killed seven people.  A fire and subsequent explosions at a container depot in the
same town in June last year killed more than 50 people.