 In a message posted on its Twitter account, the Russian Embassy in Kenya appears to blame the Western countries for pushing the LGBTQ agenda which it says is an encroachment on traditional values and cultural norms that ought to be protected. According to the Russian government, "humanity is doomed" if traditional values deemed to protect the family are not upheld. "That is only the beginning, the West will come for more. Traditional values shall be protected, otherwise, humanity is doomed. Not parent 1 and parent 2, but family! Not rules, but law!" posted the Russian Embassy in Kenya. The Embassy made the post in apparent support of remarks made by Deputy President Rigathi Gachagua who has come out boldly to criticise the Supreme Court verdict allowing the LGBTQ to form association groups.  "Those things are satanic and contrary to our beliefs. We have our customs and traditions and what they are suggesting is repugnant to morality justice and our way of life," Gachagua said on Thursday. The sentiments by the Russian Embassy echo similar views made by religious and political leaders in the country. In Parliament, the controversial Supreme Court judgment elicited fury with Members of the National Assembly demanding that the Supreme Court be censured for what they say is attempting to legislate from the bench and issue judgments on LGBTQ to please Western Nations. The MPs called on the bench to review its decision saying the judgement went against the cultural norm and risks tainting future generations. On Monday, the Supreme Court of Kenya ruled that the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Queer (LGBTQ) community have the right to association. The judgment brought to a close a nearly decade-long court battle and debate on the rights accorded to gays and homosexuals in the country. The judges in their majority judgment said the decision by the lower courts to deny the members of the gay community in Kenya their right to register as a Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO) was discriminatory.