 Maina, who is more popularly known perhaps for the song 'Kuna Kuna', in which she delivered arguably the standout verse in the hit song, took to Twitter Sunday night to set a few things straight - and left things messier than she found them. She tweeted; "Unless it's Nyash, Kinoti, Watendawili, Femi or Fathermoh, I'm not doing any more collaborations this year. Leave me out of interviews as well." Now, there's absolutely nothing wrong with anyone wanting a more creative hand in their craft but Brandy's tweet seems to have rubbed people the wrong way. As if in anticipation of the conundrum she would cause, Brandy was smart enough to disable the comment section of her tweet which has now been viewed over 140,000 times and has racked up an increasing 200+ Quote Tweets. Kenyans on Twitter, an indefatigable mass of opinionated fellows, have always found a way to navigate such conversational hindrances and thus, they all flocked to the Quote Tweets section to let Brandy know exactly what was on their minds. Replies like "Who is she?" and "Who are you?" form the bulk of all the sentiments from unimpressed Kenyans. Twitter user @TheWendy0 wrote, "Haha, babes thinks she's who Nikita Kering is." Another one, @theonlybee3000 said, "Why are you telling Twitter? Are we your management team? Hire a PR person this is embarrassing!" Another user carefully explained to Brandy the importance of the media in fostering a career as young as hers, noting that only the likes of Beyonce and Rihanna can safely say no to media interviews and still sell records. But, of course, as it is with anything, Brandy had a few chaps in her corner, rooting for her. One fan, @sleekseesghosts tweeted, "I support this, let her choose who she wishes to collab with. Y'all now acting that you don't know Brandy Maina, she's taking over soon!" After much hullabaloo, Brandy Maina has now taken to Instagram to calm the chaos, posting, "I can tell the people pressed about my tweet are not artists cause they don't get the back end of it...." "There's a time for everything... I've been doing collaborations for a while now and I really haven't taken time to work on my solo project." She added, "If I do a song with you, I'll push it to the best of my ability and that takes time, money and effort that I think I need preserved for my E.P for the rest of the year." Brandy Maina's other songs include Haiya, Tokea (alongside Ethan Muziki) and Superwoman (an International Women's Day all-female collaboration alongside Nadia Mukami, Avril and others).