 Speaking during a thanksgiving service in Tharaka Nithi on Sunday, DP Gachagua claimed that when President William Ruto was looking for his deputy he had him and CS Kindiki as his top candidates. By virtue of merit, DP Gachagua said that they were both qualified for the position, making it a mind-bending task for President Ruto to make a choice. "When the president was looking for a running mate he saw that I am competent and also professor is competent and he was stuck. I am a hard worker and professor is also a hard worker. I am honest and professor is honest. We were stuck for almost 17 hours," said Gachagua. President Ruto, therefore, asked the duo to have a talk and deliberate on who will take up the country's second-top state job. It was in their meeting, DP Gachagua added, that they agreed to have him take the role and that CS Kindiki would be awarded a plump state job. "He (Ruto) told us to sit down with professor and we talked and I told him that I am abit older so niwachie mimi niendelee na wewe tukipata upatiwe ingine kubwa," he said as he thanked Kindiki for agreeing to the arrangement. During the political campaign period, it was highly speculated that Prof. Kindiki was one of the most likely candidates to be picked as running mate but President Ruto confirmed that DP Gachagua (then Mathira MP) had made the cut. Alongside Kindiki and Gachagua, Attorney General Justin Muturi, Water and Sanitation CS Alice Wahome, Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru and Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro were among the candidates considered for the position. DP Gachagua further lauded CS Kindiki for the work he is administering in his docket, particularly the manner in which he is dealing with the banditry in Northern Kenya. He assured him of the state's utmost support, expressing optimism that he will tame the menace for good. "He had not disappointed the president and I. He works hard and he is committed. He is working so hard on the banditry in Northern Kenya and we support you and when you succeed you will have given this county alot of respect."