Deputy President Rigathi Gachagua has sensationally stated
that officials from the previous administration of President Uhuru Kenyatta stole Ksh.16 billion in the
period leading to the handover to President William Ruto’s government. Speaking on Friday evening at a hotel in Nairobi where he
attended a meeting with professionals from Tetu, Nyeri County, the Deputy
President said the monies were being ferried in cartons and flown in choppers
to certain individuals' homes. Gachagua pointed out that Ksh.10 billion was stolen during
the Presidential election petition, and Ksh.6 billion just two days before the August 9th election. “Two days before the elections, they stole Ksh.6 billion and
pretended to sell some shares from Telkom. When there was a case before the
Supreme Court, they stole another Ksh.10 billion purportedly to pay some
contractors. “Money was being brought in cartons at Wilson Airport and
flown in choppers to people's homes. And these are the people now unaskia
wanaambiwa kuja andika statement kidogo, anaingia ndege anatoroka. And these
people, who are thieves, were calling others thieves. They ripped this
country…. They took everything,” said the deputy president. Gachagua went ahead to blame the alleged wanton theft of
public funds for the current dire state of the economy. He reiterated that the Kenya Kwanza government inherited a
dilapidated economy from President Uhuru Kenyatta’s regime. “I said during my inauguration about the country we
inherited... some people thought I was being mischievous. We inherited a
dilapidated country, the coffers were empty, the stores were empty, not even
rats were there because there was nothing to eat,” said the DP. “We have started building this country from scratch. All the
good work that President Mwai Kibaki did in 10 years was totally destroyed. All
the good work Kibaki did of building a strong economy, of having thriving
businesses, of allowing people to trade freely, of making sure there is money
circulating in the economy, all of it was destroyed especially during the handshake
era.” He said domestic borrowing from commercial banks at high-interest rates also contributed to the strain on the economy adding that the
Kenya Kwanza administration has put a stop to this “Domestic borrowing to commercial banks charged high rates
because the borrowers were owners of the same banks and couldn't negotiate
interest to be charged. Domestic borrowing has been stopped with immediate
effect to enable the country to recover,” he said. He however noted there was hope and that the Ruto administration
would fix the economy. “I want to give you hope. Before we came into power we were
blacklisted by international lenders but now everything is okay for we have
been given a thumbs up,” noted the DP The dinner with Tetu professionals showcased different
investment opportunities in the constituency ranging from Agribusiness to
manufacturing and innovation.