Lawyers representing
Philippine women forced to work as sex slaves by Japan during World War II
urged Manila Friday to pay them compensation after a United Nations committee
called on the government to provide them with "reparations". During World War II,
up to 200,000 women -- mostly from Korea but also from other parts of Asia including
the Philippines -- were forced to work in Japanese military brothels, according
to historians. On Wednesday, the UN's
Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women found that
Philippine survivors had faced "continuous discrimination" due to the
Manila government's failure to provide reparations, social support and
recognition equal to the harm they had suffered. Twenty-four women from
the Malaya Lolas (Free Grandmothers) group filed a complaint with the UN
committee in 2019, claiming the Philippines had not backed their claims against
Japan for compensation. "They asserted
that the Philippines' failure to fight for their cause had essentially resulted
in ongoing discrimination against them that continues to this day," the
committee said in a statement. The committee found
the women did not receive the same benefits or services as male war veterans and urged the government to provide them with "full reparation" and
an "official apology". The number of
Philippine women forced into sexual slavery during Japan's 1942-45 occupation
of the archipelago nation is believed to be in the hundreds. Japanese leaders have
over the decades offered apologies and compensation money to victims, albeit
deliberately sourced from the private sector rather than the government. Ahead of President
Ferdinand Marcos's visit to Tokyo last month, which was aimed at deepening
economic and security ties, the Philippine foreign ministry said all
war-related claims had been settled by a 1956 reparations agreement with Japan. The UN committee's
decision, though not binding, was "very significant", said Joel
Butuyan, chairman of the Center for International Law in Manila, which
represented the women. "We cannot
actually force the Philippine government to comply, but we're going to go to
the offices concerned and present to them that this is a moral obligation at
the very least," Butuyan told AFP Friday. Only 20 of the 24
complainants were still alive, said Virginia Suarez, who heads a women's rights
group.  Since the war, the
countries have become close allies. Japan is now one of the Philippines' top
investors, trading partners and aid donors.