Italy has asked France to hand over a convicted killer and
suspected member of a powerful mafia organisation captured after 16 years on
the run, his lawyer said Wednesday. Edgardo Greco, 63, is suspected of belonging to the
notorious 'Ndrangheta, a powerful mafia organisation based in Calabria,
southern Italy. He was arrested in the French city of Saint-Etienne, where
he had at one point run an Italian restaurant under an alias, according to
French prosecutors. He is wanted in Italy to serve a life sentence for the
murders of Stefano and Giuseppe Bartolomeo, according to Interpol, which
reported last month's arrest. He is also accused of the attempted murder of Emiliano
Mosciaro "as part of a mafia war between the Pino Sena and Perna Pranno
gangs that marked the early 1990s". Greco's lawyer, Benoit Courtin, told AFP that Italy had
filed its extradition request with the appeals court in the southeastern city
of Lyon. In Saint-Etienne, Greco became in June 2021 the owner of an
Italian restaurant called Caffe Rossini Ristorante, running it until November
2021, French prosecutors said. According to documents seen by AFP, he used the name Paolo
Dimitrio and also worked in other Italian restaurants in the city. Greco also worked evenings in a pizza restaurant under his
assumed name, according to Italian media. His arrest came a week after Italian police said they had
dismantled a 'Ndrangheta mafia ring dominating a large area of southern
Calabria and seized assets exceeding 250 million euros ($270 million). Fifty-six people, many already in prison, were put under
criminal investigation for a series of crimes including mafia-related
conspiracy, extortion, kidnapping, bribery and possession of weapons, police
and prosecutors said. His arrest also came just over two weeks after Italian
police arrested one of the most notorious bosses of the Sicilian Cosa Nostra
mafia, Matteo Messina Denaro, who had been on the run for 30 years.  The 60-year-old was arrested after visiting a health clinic
where he was being treated in the Sicilian capital Palermo.