The Institute for Social Accountability (TISA) National Coordinator Diana Gichengo has criticized the
Controller of Budget Margaret Nyakang'o over remarks that she was put under duress to sign out Ksh.15 billion days before the 2022 General Election. Speaking on Citizen TV’s News Night show on Tuesday, Ms. Gichengo said
Nyakang’o should face the full force of the law for going against the
constitution and her mandate as a State officer. Gichengo says that threats are not a justification to
violate the law and that State officers have a duty to the citizens that they should be obligated to follow. “The process of our budget is very long and elaborate
because we knew abuse of power was anchored around financial resources. By the
time controller of Budget is getting the documents, they have been initiated
from the lowest officer,” she said. “She bypasses all that, ignores the law, and it is her only
protection, it is the law, not the president. For now, she is in conflict with the law, and am hoping that the full force of the law will take effect because this
was also done during the transition period where you should have expected that
there should even have been a liaison with the assumption of office committee.” While comparing the sentiments with those of Director of
Public Prosecution (DPP) Nordin Haji last year where he dropped cases saying he
had been coerced into investigations, Gichengo said the two officers are not
fit to hold public office. She asserts that if the controller of the budget was able to
reveal something which affects the lives of many Kenyans just because of a new
political regime, then she is already politically compromised and should
resign. “They are threats but they are very settled threats because they
negotiated. Just because you are threatened that the head of state is about to
call you, you go ahead and approve an illegal expenditure amounting to Ksh. 15
billion. This is the one we know, how many more expenditures don’t we know?”
She posed. “Despite acting on threats, these are people who are still
in office. We are not sure whether she will call another from the current
president and again for self-preservation, they will approve new monies and we
will wait a new year it will be sorry I needed to breathe…really? You breathe
alone when other Kenyans suffocate?” Dr. Erick Komolo, Advocate who was also on the platform virtually echoed Gichengo’s remarks saying public officers should be independent
and not aligned with a political outfit. “It is important that we have public officers who are insulated
and have a conscience. If you give me orders I just leave. In any case, the
process of removing auditor general and DPP is outlined in the constitution …they
are very protected,” he stated. “I think they are playing politics. They are trying to kowtow
to the current regime which is not perfect and trying to paint everyone they
worked with including Dr. Matiangi as a very bad person and that is not the
country we want.”  He added: “If you can’t follow the constitution and then you
admit in a politically convenient way, then surely you are not worth that
office, I think the two individuals should leave office.”