Scores of job
seekers are set to depart the country this week for greener pastures in
different countries in the Middle East and Europe as the unemployment crisis
continues to bite. The cohort from
Rift valley’s Uasin Gishu County, one of many using job agencies to seek
employment with varying degrees of success, says the situation back at home has
forced them to go outside Kenya’s borders to seek a way of eking a living. One by one,
hundreds of unemployed youth throng the prayer venue, for them this is indeed
an answered prayer, a way out of the depths of unemployment and the resultant
cycle of poverty that has plagued them and their families. 

Armed with their travel documents and their appointment letters for jobs
abroad, they are optimistic that their fortunes are about to change, for the
better. “I am going to
take up a general cleaning job. I am travelling on Tuesday,” Reuen Ominde told
Citizen TV.

These young people numbering about two hundred are just a small portion of
those looking beyond Kenya for the chance to earn a living. They say their
efforts to find that job in Kenya has been futile, hence the need to cast their
nets a little wider, with the support of their parents, some have sacrificed
their earthly belongings for the chance to go abroad.

Wilson Chemjor, whose son is leaving for Poland, two other children already
work in Qatar; “This is the second year now, and they are doing very well.” But this
venture outside isn’t always smooth sailing, as some fail to hit the mark with
their quest to get onto the plane out of Kenya, some are still reeling from
this disappointment. The latest
being the promised jobs in the recently held world cup in Qatar which never
happened. The recruiting agency, First Choice, defending itself against
allegations of mismanaging the job applications. “We were around
2,500 seekers but only 900 managed to fly out. We had trusted the process but
we did not get that chance,” Brian Chumba says. First Choice Managing
Director Judy Chepchirchir says “it happened that we had challenges. Not all
that we registered joined the World Cup and some of those have now changed to
the two-year program.” The hunger for
jobs has seen thousands of Kenyans troop outside the country in search of
better options. According to
the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics (KNBS) data, about 10.1 million out of
the 28 million people in the workforce are out of jobs, amidst rising poverty,
with 2.5 million of these actively looking for work, while 7.6 are inactive in
the job market.  Some of them
having given up hope of getting employment. While the statistics paint a grim picture, there are still thousands who are
still keeping their hopes alive, just like this cohort who now believe that
their luck has turned, albeit in a distant land away from home.