Azimio la Umoja One
Kenya Alliance co-principal Martha Karua has labeled President William Ruto's
administration as an "illegitimate regime" that rests on shaky democratic
foundations. Speaking on Thursday during
the launch of the Movement for Defense of Democracy (MDD) led by opposition chief Raila Odinga, Karua said that the Kenya
Kwanza administration has been "merciless, thoughtless and authoritarian" ever
since President Ruto assumed office in September 2022. "The August 2022
elections handed our country an illegitimate regime that is heartless, reckless
and dictatorial," said Karua. According to Karua, ever since
Ruto rose to power, his government has allegedly embarked on introducing
measures whose effects have made the cost of basic commodities and services
unaffordable for a great number of Kenyans. "This illegitimate regime
heartlessly removed subsidies to food, unga, electricity, petrol, diesel and
paraffin thereby increasing the bus fares. It removed subsidies on school fees
and has made life unbearable," said Karua. "Ruto has instead
launched a massive propaganda campaign against the subsidies program that was
meant to secure the lives of millions of Kenyans from the harsh economic realities.
This is happening at a time when virtually all nations on earth have unveiled
interventions to shield their citizens from economic decline." To further put her point
across, Karua added that despite the Azimio la Umoja One Kenya coalition issuing
out a 14-day ultimatum to President William Ruto to address the country's harsh
economic state lest Azimio takes action, the head-of-state has yet to address
or comply to the demands. "Two weeks ago at
Jeevanjee Gardens, we said that all subsidies to basic commodities must be
restored and taxes must come down. We also said that the process of disbanding
and remaking the IEBC must stop completely because it was designed to create a
William Ruto Commission," she said. "We said that if these
demands are not met we will lead Kenyans to launch a movement for the defence
of our democracy in order to restore people's power, choices and sovereignty in
terms of who governs them and how." Karua's sentiments were echoed
by Wiper Party leader Kalonzo Musyoka who noted that Azimio was left with no other
option but to launch the Movement for Defense of Democracy (MDD) owing to President Ruto's alleged inaction in line
with Article 37 of the constitution which provides that every person has the right
to peacefully assemble, demonstrate and to present petitions to public
authorities. "We are today invoking
these provisions of our constitution to launch a massive, peaceful movement of
defiance against an illegitimate, reckless, heartless and incompetent Kenya
Kwanza regime. We launched the MDD because Kenya Kwanza is incapable of
listening to the cries of our people," said Musyoka.  "The people are now
taking back all their delegated powers. It is now action time. Having consulted
the public widely and extensively today we gave the much-awaited directions
subject to the constitutional provisions that give the people the power and
right to peacefully assemble."