National Assembly Speaker
Moses Wetangula has urged Kenyans to keep off protests as called for by ODM
leader Raila Odinga noting that holding demonstrations will not help put food
on their tables. The Speaker said that Kenyans
should instead focus on the Kenya Kwanza development plan which he says is set
to reduce the high cost of living. "Elections ended a long
time ago and there is no time to waste other than serving the people", he
said. The Speaker blamed the Azimio
camp for trying to obstruct President William Ruto's administration from
developing Kenya's economy with what he terms as unconstructive rallies. "I want to tell our
President William Ruto to concentrate on serving the people of Kenya and ensure
that taxes collected are put in the right use, work towards bringing down the
cost of fuel, create employment opportunity among other pressing issues in our
country, "he said. Speaking as he presided over a
funds drive event at Kiboswa SDA church in Chesumei constituency, Nandi County,
Wetang'ula urged worshipers to pray for Kenya from the confusion he says Raila
wants to instill in the country. "Kenya  has already
moved on to build her economy and the Kenya Kwanza government will not allow
room for mass action in the country," he said. “Even here, they thought
things were going to be different, but we came here and changed the narrative
and the equilibrium of politics in this area. You voted in young and focused
leaders who are eager to bring development." The Speaker’s sentiments were
echoed by Transport CS Kipchumba Murkomen who pointed out that it was still too
early for Azimio to move to the streets in protest since the government is
working hard to restore the economy and bring down the cost of living. The Speaker likewise commended
the region's leaders saying that they are brilliant young people who have a
strong political stand which contributed greatly to the Kenya Kwanza Government
assuming power. Wetangula and leaders presents
at the function also joined the wave against the LGBTQ+ ruling by the Supreme
Court which they termed as a breach to Kenya's society and morals. He urged the church to stand
firm and defend its stand against such behaviors and to ensure they impact good
morals upon society Wetangula appreciated the
church leadership noting that the Church is an important foundation of society
and that it is the cornerstone of socio-economic development in Kenya. He noted that the church has
continued to offer great support to family and thanked the clergy for giving
Kenyans great counsel in trying times Wetangula asked the church to
continue offering prayers for the wellbeing of the country.  Other leaders in attendance
included; Nandi Governor Stephen Sang, Nandi Senator Samson Cherarkey, Chesumei
MP Paul Biego, Mosop MP Abraham Kirwa, Tongaren MP Murumba Chikati, Tinderet MP
Julius Kibiwot among other leaders.