Women will now
access cheaper loans in a new Government plan aimed at advancing financial
inclusion in the country. President William Ruto said under the remodelled Women Enterprise Fund (WEF) Kenya,
women will borrow at a rate of six per cent a year. He said the move
will reach more women and accelerate their economic empowerment since the loans will
be accessed instantly unlike in the past when the processing took 45 days. “We have also
eliminated financial intermediaries. This will boost access and check credit
costs,” said the President. He was speaking on Thursday at the KICC Kenya during
the re-launch of the Women Enterprise Fund and the launch of the second product
of the Hustler Fund. The President noted that with more loan products that have shorter
repayment periods, the Fund will empower more women and strengthen their
financial muscles. He announced that the development of a Sharia-compliant
product is underway to attend to Muslim consumers. At the same time, the President reported the
launch of the Individual Micro Loan Product under the Hustler Fund to provide
affordable credit to informal businesses. “The product will be
available to hustlers who will be eligible for amounts of between Ksh.10,000
and Ksh.100,000 at an annual interest rate of seven per cent," he stated. At the function
were Deputy President Rigathi Gachagua Cabinet Secretaries, Principal
Secretaries and Governors. Mr Gachagua asked
women to keep fighting for their political space in the country. “You have the
requisite skills and energy that we require to move Kenya forward,” he said. Council of Governors
Chairman and Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru said technology has offered a
unique chance to confront the perennial challenge of financial exclusion,
especially among women. She noted that the
Council of Governors will endeavour to work towards empowering women by
ensuring “they are at the centre of our transformation plan”. On her part, Embu
Governor Cecily Mbarire observed that while progress has been made in women's
empowerment, more work needs to be done. “We must keep pushing for more
opportunities to lead, especially in the political and economic space,” she
said.   