Kirinyaga
Governor Anne Waiguru has urged President William Ruto to ignore the recent allegations
from the opposition, which claims figures from a whistleblower show that Raila
Odinga won the 2022 presidential election. During
an inter-denominational thanksgiving service in Kirinyaga on Sunday, Waiguru
termed the ‘fresh dossier’ from the opposition as destructions. “Let
us not focus on destructions that have no course. If they did not defeat you
when they intimidated you and harassed all the people around you, how will they
defeat you now that you have moved closer to God and you have the government?”
Waiguru posed. The
Council of Governors chairperson urged president Ruto not to react to the
claims made by the opposition. “They
should not scare you, do not even answer them, leave that to your footsoldiers
I think they are looking for relevance,” she said. During
the church service, Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro also urged the Head of State not to
be shaken by opposition’s claim that Raila Odinga was the winner of the August9, 2022 presidential election. “I
pity those who think they can scare you (Ruto), you don’t get scared,” Nyoro
said The
legislator further called on members of the oppositions to let the elections
dust settle, and “give a chance to Kenyans to continue with their lives.” “We
want to tell Tinga (Raila) and his group that Kenyans are clever. You can not
purport to whistle blow and the person blowing the whistle is your employee.
Stop threatening Kenyans,” he said. On
the planned public baraza to be held by Raila on Monday, Kiharu MP said that the Azimio leader will be
supported by government as long as no property will be destroyed as a result. “There
is no person to intimidate in Kenya, you can not intimidate our president
William Ruto. You cannot coerce anyone and extract any personal benefit by threatening
to hold demonstrations,” he added. The
Azimio coalition has made fresh demands to the Independent Electoral and
Boundaries Commission (IEBC) to open election servers for audit. “We
have been saying that we won the August poll and now the figures from the
whistleblower reinforce what we have been saying,” Martha Karua, Azimio la
Umoja’s deputy presidential candidate in the 2022 polls said.  This
prompted Raila to call for the public baraza to discuss the disclosures by awhistleblower on the conduct of the 2022 general election.