The Kenya Medical
Practitioners and Dentists Council (KMPDC) is investigating over 20 cases of
botched circumcision in various parts of the country. The council says it
has received several complaints in the past two months, adding that it will
institute a committee consisting of highly trained surgeons to unravel the
cause of the botched circumcisions. This comes as the months of
December 2022 and January 2023 have seen an unprecedented cases of botched
circumcisions reported across various parts of the country. KMPDC CEO Dr. David Kariuki said: “The council has instituted measures to
investigate the causes of the complaints that could have made these boys reach
the various health facilities.” The Moi Teaching and Referral
Hospital (MTRH) in Eldoret, Uasin Gishu County, has recorded 18 cases, the
highest in the country. MTRH management said
12 boys are still receiving treatment at the hospital. It is from the same
county where a 14-year-old succumbed following a case of botched circumcision. KMPDC is now seeking
to determine how the life threatening circumcisions were conducted. “We understand also
that there are some that could have been treated at private hospitals and other
county hospitals so we don’t have the full statistics, we have only what we
received,” said MTRH CEO Dr. Wilson Aruasa. Dr. Kariuki added: “In Uasin Gishu, most cases are from the
cultural centres or homes but are complicated probably due to infections and
such…so our investigations will tell us the actual facts.” “The main complications that we have seen is what we call secondary
infections, that is infection that comes two to three weeks after the
operation,” added Dr. Aruasa. The council has also
ordered for the immediate closure of St. Cate's Medical Centre in Ongata
Rongai, Kajiado County, following the case of botched circumcision on a
13-year-old boy three weeks ago. The doctor who
performed the procedure on the boy has also been ordered to report to the
council for questioning. Dr. Kariuki stated: “For the case in Rongai, we sent our team and, as is
practice, we were also joined by other regulatory bodies including the nursing
council…and we have since established that the clinic was registered at the
council, and we have closed the clinic as we proceed with investigations.” However, the owner of
the clinic, Anthony Garuchi, is yet to appear before KMPDC as he went into
hiding since the case was reported.  The 13-year-old is
still recuperating at the Kenyatta National Hospital (KNH) and is expected to undergo
reconstructive surgery.