The United States government is offering a reward of upto USD
10 million (approx. Ksh.1.2 billion) for information leading to the
arrest of the suspected main terrorist responsible for the 2019 attack on the dusitD2 complex in
Westlands. This
was announced by U.S Ambassador to Kenya Meg Whitman on Thursday, in a joint
press address with Director of Criminal Investigations (DCI) Mohamed Amin. Ms.
Whitman revealed that the U.S Department of State has since identified one of
the main suspected terrorists in the attack as Mohamoud Abdi Aden, alias Mohamud Abdirahman. Through
its Rewards for Justice (RFJ) programme, the U.S has put up the bounty on
Mohamoud as well as “any other individual who committed, attempted or conspired
to commit, or aided or abetted in the commission” of the attack. At
least 21 people, including one U.S citizen, were killed in the January 15, 2019
attack by Al-Shabaab terrorists said to have been armed with explosives,
automatic weapons and grenades. “Al-Shabaab,
an affiliate of the al-Qa'ida terrorist organization, released live updates
throughout the attack and issued a press release in which it stated that the
attack was in response to guidance from now deceased al-Qa'ida leader Ayman
Zawahiri,” stated Ms. Whitman. “Mohamoud
Abdi Aden, aka Mohamud Abdirahman, an al-Shabaab leader, was part of the cell
that planned the Dusit2 Hotel attack. In October 2022, the Department of State
designated Aden as a Specially Designated Global Terrorist (SDGT) under
Executive Order (E.O.) 13224, as amended.” The
envoy further added: “Al-Shabaab is responsible for numerous terrorist attacks
in Kenya, Somalia, and neighboring countries that have killed thousands of
people, including U.S. citizens. The terrorist group continues to plot, plan,
and conspire to commit terrorist acts against the United States, U.S.
interests, and foreign partners.”  Ms.
Whitman also stated that the U.S in March 2018 designated AL-Shabaab as a
Foreign Terrorist Organization (FTO) and Specially Designated Global Terrorist
(SDGT).