Nairobi
Senator Edwin Sifuna has castigated Deputy President Rigathi Gachagua for what
he calls being out of “constitutional and democratic order” in his recent
public utterances. Gachagua is
embroiled in a tiff with Nairobi Governor Johnson Sakaja, primarily over the
latter’s plans to kick out matatus
from the Central Business District (CBD).  Sifuna, in a strongly-worded statement shared on his social media platforms on Monday, noted that the country’s second-in-command “is effortlessly turning himself into a national joke, delivering illegal decrees and generally behaving like a DO from a bygone era.” While Sakaja maintains that he has the full backing of the President William Ruto to restore
what he calls the city's lost glory by relocating public service vehicle termini,
the Gachagua has gone ahead to tell matatu operators and city business people to
ignore Sakaja and continue with their businesses. “There is no Governor that I cannot tell what they need to
do... It is there outlined in the Executive Order issued by the president, that
I’m the bridge between the National and County Governors,” he said on Sunday as he assured them of
government protection against the plan he argues will stifle the economy of
Nairobi. Last month, he was famously quoted claiming Kikuyus are the ones who elected Sakaja. He claimed he “mobilised Kikuyus in Nairobi to vote for him”
adding, “any decision that (Sakaja) makes which may affect business in Nairobi,
we must first sit and discuss.” According to
Sifuna, most “right-thinking” Kenyans have turned a blind eye to the deputy
president’s “unmatched ability to be a national nuisance”, but he has gone too
far by saying he is justified to direct Sakaja. “I firmly
believe that Gachagua can be safely ignored, but I was elected by the people to
draw the line on our constitutional and democratic order, when anyone, village
clowns included, evidently becomes a threat to both… It is this mandate that
forces me to now speak on the recent conduct of the Deputy President,” Sifuna
said. Sifuna told Gachagua to desist from interfering
with the operations of county governments, saying the 2010 Constitution, in
creating devolved units, made them distinct governments in their own right. “They are
therefore not subject to direction or control by the national government. The
Governors do not report to Gachagua. He has no power over county governments
and must desist from interfering with their working,” he said. “Nairobians
have stated unequivocally that they want the city to change. Changing the city
cannot happen by making it a large kiosk paradise or a big matatu terminus
under the guise of "Kazi ni Kazi". In achieving this change, the
Nairobi County government cannot and shall not be beholden to tribal blackmail,
loose tongues or latter-day pseudo-Mau Mau and their fake "bravery".
We must change how the city is run and one individual or tribe cannot hold all
of Nairobi hostage,” added Sifuna. He further
trashed what he called Gachagua's “invitation to elevate some tribes to
superior positions over others or his ill-informed agenda of attempting to
divide Nairobi into tribal boroughs.” “All tribes
in Kenya as well as foreign nationalities dwell in harmony in Nairobi… We were
elected by people from all tribes and cannot be told that the interests of any
one tribe override the interests of everyone else,” the Nairobi senator said. While
accusing Gachagua of “grossly overestimating himself and his influence over
Nairobi politics,” the senator said the real political titans in the capital “are
known and they haven't spoken.” “It's obvious
Gachagua is still a hangover from his glory days as an all-powerful DO
confiscating chicken from helpless farmers. It's a good time to remind him that
those days are long gone,” Sifuna said. “Let him keep
off the running of county governments and concentrate on delivering the many
promises he and the President made to Kenyans, strictly in line with the powers
he has under the Constitution,” read the statement. Under the proposed de-congestion plan, all
PSVs plying will pick and drop passengers at the Green Park, Desai and Park
Road bus termini, as well as the Muthurwa and Railway Club termini. Gachagua is of the view that moving Matatus to
the termini disadvantages city traders who need to move large amounts of cargo in
and out of the city. On Tuesday, Sakaja said he is not in a fight
with Gachagua and that the DP should meet with him instead of waging war on
the governor in public gatherings. “I am not in a fight with the deputy
president. I respect him as an old man and he is in a higher position than me
in terms of the party,” said Sakaja in an interview with Inooro TV. “There is a way the national government should
relate with the county governments. Although I do not want to speak much about
him because he is my boss, there might be somewhere we disagreed and it would
be best for us to sit and discuss instead of taking them to the public.” Sakaja said Gachagua should forge a good
working relationship with the county’s leadership, noting that the president has been supporting him since his election as county boss in August last year.  “Nairobi will always have a special relationship
with the National government. What I have done so far is because of the
president,” he said.