A 13-year-old boy is
recuperating at the Kenyatta National Hospital (KNH) following a botched circumcision at a medical facility
in Rongai area of Kajiado County. The family of the boy blames
the doctor at St. Cates Medical Centre who circumcised
him for negligence, after a section of the boy’s
manhood was chopped off during the procedure. According to the family, the
boy was rushed to KNH when it was too little too
late. Doctors at KNH were forced to completely remove the part which was
reattached as it had started decomposing. The victim was hoping to
join secondary school this year after scoring 396 marks in the just released KCPE examination results. “Wakati
walirudi kijana yangu akaniambia amefanyiwa kienyeji…saa tano mtu wa pikipiki
akaniambiwa kijana hafanyiwi poa,” said the boy’s mother. “Sikuwa najua what exactly what had
happened…niliambiwa kijana hajakojoa tangu atoke hospitali.” The
family says upon inquiring on what went wrong, they were informed that a
section of the boy’s manhood was chopped off
completely. The doctor at the medical
centre reattached the chopped part in an attempt to correct the procedure. But what is more shocking is
the boy’s discharge from the hospital despite the doctor being fully aware of
the botched circumcision. The family says the doctors at KNH were forced to remove the chopped part completely as it
had started decomposing, affecting the rest
of his genitalia. The victim’s mother filed a report at the Ongata
Rongai Police Station but action is yet to be taken. Our efforts to reach out to the
medical facility were met with drama. The said doctor identified
as Anthony Garuchi denied being in-charge of the facility. He claimed he was just a
cleaner, advising us to come back the following day. We asked for his phone number but the number given out
was offline. The family, irked by the denial of the doctor, attacked him, attracting the attention of members
of the public. He then took off, shutting the family out.  At KNH, the boy is recuperating as he waits for full recovery before a
reconstructive surgery is performed on him.