Health
Cabinet Secretary Susan Nakhumicha has dismissed reports that there is a shortage of condoms in the country. Speaking to Nation on Wednesday, CS Nakhumicha stated that the country has 38
million pieces of condoms in store. “I
would like to clarify to Kenyans that we do not have a shortage of condoms in
the country. As a matter of fact, we have 38 million pieces of condoms as of this
morning. This vis-à-vis the population of Kenyans, you can see that we are
overstocked,” Nakhumicha said. According
to the CS, the deficiencies being reported in various regions are a result
of hitches in the distribution process from the Kenya Medical Supplies
Authority (KEMSA) stores. “We have sufficient quantities. We have a
challenge with how these condoms get to mwananchi because of the process. A
health facility has to request for condoms by consolidating their orders to the
county. We then get one order from the county and send it to KEMSA,” she said. Explaining
the intricacies of getting condoms to Kenyans at local dispensers, the CS added
that the National Aids Control Council (NACC) also generates distribution lists
that are also sent to KEMSA. “We
have a lapse in managing that process but we are working together to streamline
it,” CS Nakhumicha said. She
also acknowledged the hitches witnessed in the countrywide condom supply late
last year, attributing it to a go-slow in confirming the quality of condoms
before they could be released to the public. Among
the counties where a condom shortage was reported is Bungoma, which was
blamed for a surge in HIV cases and unwanted pregnancies among young people. The
County Aid Control Officer Fred Barasa in November told journalists that the
situation was dire, with people who could not afford new condoms resorting to washing and reusing them.  He
at the time expressed fears that the shortage, particularly during the Christmas
festive season would further exacerbate the situation and lead to spike in
infections as well as an increase in unwanted pregnancies.