Azimio la Umoja One Kenya coalition
party’s top brass will, in the coming days, issue a comprehensive statement in
regards to a report detailing how the August 2022 General Election was
allegedly rigged in favour of President William Ruto. Azimio says it will do so once
party leader Raila Odinga returns to Kenya from South Africa where he is
hosting a series of meetings in his capacity as the AU High Representative for
Infrastructure Development in Africa. Speaking in Nairobi on Thursday, the
leaders led by Wiper party chief Kalonzo Musyoka labeled the alleged
revelations as startling while questioning whether Kenya is truly a democratic
country since the outcome of the polls were reportedly influenced. "In a few days our coalition
leader who is abroad will be arriving into the country and we will give Kenyans
a way forward. At that time we will collectively issue a public statement
together with the data and the direction the country should take following
these revelations," said Musyoka. "The data calls into
question the outcome of the presidential elections and the credibility and
legitimacy of our entire electoral system and infrastructure. There are more
revelations in our possession that will unearth the theft in the 2022 General
Election. This was not an election but a sham." The report, which Azimio says was
released by an alleged IEBC whistleblower, claims that Mr. Odinga won the
presidential polls after garnering 8,170,355 votes ahead of Ruto who reportedly
managed 5,919,973 votes. Musyoka went on to thank the
aforementioned whistleblower for bringing the matter to the attention of the
public, noting that whoever was responsible for making the information known
was a true patriot. "We want to commend the IEBC
whistleblower who will now enjoy full protection under the law for bringing
this to the public. The whistleblower has taken this action, a great risk to
themselves, and set an excellent example of the true meaning of patriotism,"
he said. On her part, former Azimio
presidential running mate Martha Karua stated that senior IEBC officials
deliberately withheld the information captured in the report in order to uphold
Ruto's win at the August 2022 polls. According to Karua, the masterminds
behind the alleged poll rigging are currently interrogating IEBC personnel to
determine whether they were responsible for releasing the contentious data on
the polls. "This data was sat on
deliberately by the IEBC having known what they did and the court allowed that
because IEBC is the duty bearer under the Constitution; they keep the records
and they keep them to the order of the court when they ought to be availed to parties
when they demand them," said the Narc Kenya party leader.  "The truth is finally out
and no wonder there are reports that IEBC is interrogating personnel to find
out who let the cat out of the bag."