A grey cloud descended over
the skies of Nyamiranga village in Borabu, Nyamira County, at the home of the late Franklin Mong’are. Tearful family and friends came to condole with the family of the 23-year-old who died in
the custody of the area Assistant Chief in unclear
circumstances. His family says the late
Mong’are had gone to the administrator’s office seeking to have his impounded
motorbike released. But,
moments later, Mongare was reduced to a shell of broken bones and a crushed
skull; he later succumbed to his fatal
injuries at the Tenwek Mission Hospital. Violet
Kwamboka, an eye witness, said:
“Alisema
nifungulie niende, nilikuwa na makosa gani? Ndio
huyo askari alipiga mlango teke ukafunguka, akamtoa hapo kwa room akamshika
hivi akaamza kumpiga makofi.” Moses
Mong'are, the deceased’s father, said:
“Tarehe
ishirini na saba saa mbili asubuhi nilipigiwa ripoti kuwa kijana wangu alikuwa
amelazwa hospitalini...mtoto ameharibiwa skull sana
haiwezi kurudiwa.” The local administrator, Jared Ongaga, has however denied the accusation, saying he is not
aware of the circumstances leading to the attack and subsequent demise of
Mong’are. “Yule
kijana mimi sikumpiga wala sikumpeleka kwa wale askari mahali walikuwa.
Mimi kitu nilifanya ni kushika pikipiki na ile pombe iliyokuwa
imeshikwa,” he said. Human rights defenders have
decried the incident, calling for the arrest of the Assistant Chief and the officers
involved. “It’s
sad that the people who are supposed to be protecting us are the people who are
going around killing our sons, brothers and husbansds,” said
Grace Osinde, a human
rights defender. Fransis
Mokua, the deceased’s uncle, stated; “The death of this young man was
caused by people who were supposed to protect him. Hakuna sheria inasema mtu ameitwa
kwa chief na askari wa chief badala ya ku-protect life ndio ana-take away life.” The body of the deceased is
lying at the Tenwek Mission Hospital mortuary awaiting a postmortem exam.  The late Mong’are is
survived by his wife and a six month old baby.