The Law Society of Kenya (LSK) members on Friday staged
a nationwide protest against what they termed as delays, inefficiencies and
collapse of services in the Ministry of Lands and its registries across the
country. Among the issues the lawyers
want addressed is the failure by the digital platform Ardhi Sasa to improve
service delivery as envisioned. The lawyers claim the ministry
has over Ksh.100 billion
worth of land transactions pending, which has affected the country’s economy. The LSK members gathered at the Supreme Court of Kenya to protest what they say is
impunity at the ministry. The peaceful demonstration was replicated across the country by members who are
demanding improvement of service delivery at the ministry of lands and the
eight land registries across the country. LSK Vice President Faith Odhiambo said: “Land
registries across the country continue to experience inefficiencies arising
from inadequate personnel, missing files, incomplete land record breakdown of
franking machines, lack of working and reliable record management
system.” Among the key issues that
the law society is keen on is the digital platform Ardhi Sasa that was launched
by former
President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2017. The lawyers say the platform
has a lot of challenges for the end user,
adding that there is need to go back to the manual filing as they sort the
platform to reduce issues of backlog. LSK President Eric Theuri said: “Parliament has been allowed
to privatize stamp duty valuation but the ministry is insisting on doing them,
we do not know the benefits...we insist that the ministry should fast track
those private valuers to conduct those stamp duty valuations.” The lawyers cited corruption at the
ministry, demanding scrutiny of lands ministry
employees across the country. Nyahururu lawyer Ndegwa Wahome said: “Matters
have been brought to a halt and crucial services to deserving Kenyans...efforts
to reach out to the registrar for an amicable solution to
the stalemate has been futile.” Martin
Waichungo, Nyahururu branch LSK Chairman, added: “A search
is a very crucial document, it takes upto 3 months to get a search which beats
the logic of getting it in the first place.” According to the Principal
Secretary for State Department of Lands and Physical Planning Nixon Korir who
received the memorandum, the ministry has already began working on the issues
raised. “We have a timeline from the government
that we need
to work on those documents and finish them and unclog the pending issues...we’re also
doing an audit of the functionality of Ardhi Sasa,” said
Korir.  The ministry is considering
options to reduce the backlog as well as make land transactions easier to
increase revenue collection.