A transgender woman convicted of murder was scheduled to be
put to death Tuesday in the first such execution in the United States. Barring clemency from the governor of Missouri, Amber
McLaughlin, 49, would be the first transgender person of either sex to be
executed in the country, and also the first person to die by capital punishment
this year in America. She was convicted of murdering a former girlfriend in 2003
in a suburb of St. Louis. McLaughlin stalked the victim to the point where the
ex-partner sought a restraining order. On the day of the killing, McLaughlin waited for the woman --
named Beverly Guenther -- as she left work. Guenther was raped and stabbed to death with a kitchen
knife. Her body was dumped near the Mississippi river. In 2006 a jury found McLaughlin guilty of murder but was
deadlocked on what her punishment should be. The trial judge stepped in and imposed the death penalty.
Such intervention is allowed in Missouri as well as in Indiana. Citing the fact that a jury did not sentence McLaughlin to
death, her lawyers asked Governor Mike Parson to commute her sentence to life
in prison. "The death sentence now being considered does not come
from the conscience of the community -- but from a single judge," her
attorneys argued in their clemency request. They also argued that McLaughlin had had a troubled
childhood and suffers from mental health issues. Her cause has drawn support from high-profile people
including two Missouri members of the US House of Representatives, Cori Bush
and Emanuel Cleaver. In a letter to the governor, they said McLaughlin's adoptive
father used to beat her with a baton and even tasered her. "Alongside this horrendous abuse, she was also silently
struggling with her identity, grappling with what we now understand is gender
dysphoria," the letter states. The condition describes people feeling
their sex at birth and gender identity do not match. Press reports say McLaughlin began her gender transition in
recent years but has remained in the men's section of death row in Missouri. The Death Penalty Information Center, which works to abolish
such punishment in America, said there is no known case of an openly
transgender person being executed in the United States. The issue has drawn more attention in recent months, with
the supreme court of Ohio upholding a death sentence against a transgender
woman and Oregon state commuting one, the centre said.  Since taking office in 2018, governor Parson has never
granted a clemency request.