Russia fired a second wave of missiles at Ukraine on
Saturday, forcing people to take cover as sirens blared across the country just
hours after morning air strikes that hit critical infrastructure in Kyiv and
the eastern city of Kharkiv. Authorities in Mykolaiv, the western city of Lviv and the
Black Sea port of Odesa said air defences were trying to shoot down incoming
missiles. Explosions were heard in the central Vinnytsia region, Ukrainian
public broadcaster Suspilne reported. Moscow, which invaded last February, has been pounding
Ukraine's energy infrastructure with missiles and drones since October, causing
sweeping blackouts and disruptions to central heating and running water as
winter bites. The second attack on Saturday came hours after Reuters
journalists heard a series of blasts in Kyiv in the morning before the air raid
siren even sounded, which is highly unusual. The extent of any damage or
casualties in the second wave was not yet clear. No one was reported hurt following the first wave, but
missile debris caused a fire in one place and houses were damaged outside the
capital, officials said. "An infrastructure facility was hit. No critical damage
or fire. All emergency services are working at the site. No one is
wounded," Kyiv's military administration said in a statement. Ukrenergo, which runs the power grid, said its workers were
racing to fix the damage and that the network was grappling with a power
deficit caused by earlier attacks even though it was -2 Celsius (28 Fahrenheit)
in Kyiv, only mildly cold. DTEK, the biggest private electricity company, introduced
emergency blackouts in Kyiv, the Kyiv region and Odesa region. Kyiv's mayor said the debris of a missile came down on a
non-residential area in the Holosiivskiy district in the west of Kyiv, causing
a fire but hurting no one. Residential infrastructure was also hit in the village of
Kopyliv in the region just outside the capital. The windows and roofs of 18
privately owned houses were shattered or damaged by the blast, Oleksiy Kuleba,
the regional governor, said. Air Force spokesperson Yuriy Ihnat said Russia's missiles
had likely been fired along a high, looping ballistic trajectory from the
north, which would explain why the air raid siren did not sound. Ukraine is not able to identify and shoot down ballistic
missiles, he told the Ukrainska Pravda online outlet. In Ukraine's northeast, Oleg Synehubov, Kharkiv's regional
governor, said two S-300 missiles struck the city near the Russian border early
on Saturday. The attacks hit critical energy infrastructure and
industrial facilities in the Kharkiv and Chuhuev districts of the region, he
said. "Our emergency services units and energy workers are
working to liquidate the consequences and stabilise the situation with energy
supplies," he said. The strikes on Saturday came as Ukrainian and Russian forces
battled for control
of Soledar, a small salt-mining town in eastern Ukraine that for days has
been the focus of a relentless Russian assault. Russia said on Friday that its forces had taken control of
Soledar, in what would be a rare success for Moscow after months of battlefield
reverses, but Kyiv said its troops were still fighting in the town.  Reuters could not immediately verify the situation in
Soledar.