Social media giant Meta has
been fined an additional 5.5 million euros (around Ksh.737.1 million) for violating EU data
protection regulations with its instant messaging platform WhatsApp, Ireland's
regulator announced Thursday. The penalty follows a far
larger 390-million-euro (around Ksh.52.3 billion) fine for Meta's Instagram and Facebook platforms two
weeks ago after they were found to have flouted the same EU rules. In its new decision, the Irish
Data Protection Commission (DPC) found the group acted "in breach of its
obligations in relation to transparency," the watchdog said in a
statement. In addition, Meta relied on an
incorrect legal basis "for its processing of personal data for the
purposes of service improvement and security," the DPC added, giving the
group six months to comply. The fine was imposed by the
Irish regulator because Meta -- along with other US tech firms -- has its European
headquarters in Dublin. In response on Thursday, Meta
said it was opposed to the DPC decision and would look to overturn it. "We strongly believe that
the way the service operates is both technically and legally compliant," a
WhatsApp spokesperson said. "We disagree with the
decision and we intend to appeal." The breaches are similar to
those explained in the regulator's action against Meta earlier in January. But the earlier decision also
accused the Meta platforms of breaking rules over the processing of personal
data for the purpose of targeted advertising. In that instance the company,
co-founded by social media magnate Mark Zuckerberg, was given only three months
to respond to comply with the Irish regulator. Meta announced its intention
to appeal the 4 January decision, adding the regulatory ruling did not prevent
targeted or personalised advertising. The DPC said its more recent
fine was considerably less because of a 225 million euro fine imposed on
WhatsApp for "for breaches of this and other transparency obligations over
the same period of time". Thursday's Whatsapp fine was
also far lower because it did not relate to targeted advertising. The Irish regulator had fined
Meta 405 million euros in September for failures in handling the data of
minors, and 265 million euros in November for not sufficiently protecting
users' data. This latest round of fines
follows the adoption of three binding decisions by the European Data Protection
Board (EDPB), the EU's data protection regulator, in early December. The Vienna-based privacy group
NOYB, which brought the three complaints against Meta in 2018, had accused the
social media behemoth of reinterpreting consent as a civil law contract, which
stopped users from refusing targeted advertising. In reaction to Thursday's
news, NOYB criticised the "tiny" size of the latest fine -- and slammed
the DPC for ignoring how WhatsApp shares data within the group for advertising
purposes. "We are astonished how
the DPC simply ignores the core of the case after a 4.5-year procedure,"
said NOYB founder Max Schrems. In October 2021, the Irish
authority had proposed a draft decision that validated the legal basis used by
the group and suggested a fine of up to 36 million euros for Facebook and up to
23 million euros for Instagram, over their lack of transparency. France's CNIL regulator and
other European bodies disagreed with the draft sanction, which they considered
to be far too low. They asked the EDPB to judge
the dispute with the EU data regulator deciding in their favour. The EDPB has also asked the
Irish regulator to investigate Meta's use of personal data. However in its statement the
DPC pushed back saying the the EU body does not have the power to "direct
an authority to engage in open-ended and speculative investigation".  The regulator said it will
seek to annul the EDPB's request before the European Union's Court of Justice.