Kericho Governor Eric Mutai has acknowledged that the
government is facing challenges in rolling out Junior Secondary Schools (JSS) as
part of implementing the Competency-Based Curriculum (CBC). Speaking to Citizen TV on Tuesday morning, the governor noted
that the domiciling of JSS students in primary schools, per President William
Ruto’s directive, faces a challenge due to limited infrastructure in the
institutions. President Ruto, in a directive issued December 1, 2022, directed that the Grade
6 pupils who sat their KPSEA exams in November be domiciled in the existing primary schools alongside Grade 7,
Grade 8 and Grade 9 students. “The transition of CBC was not properly structured… the best
thing to do, because we could not throw the baby plus the bath water was to
domicile JSS within the primary school structures. Fact on the ground is that
the government is facing a tough situation in making JSS a reality in primary
schools,” Governor Mutai said. “As we talk now, we need laboratories within the JSSs. The
primary schools don’t even have sufficient classrooms; we don’t have the right
infrastructure in those institutions.” Governor Mutai said while the government has kicked off the first phase of absorbing a planned 116,000
teachers to address the teacher-student ratio gap, much needs to
be done to equip the schools with adequate facilities. “I applaud the president’s effort of employing 30,000 teachers
which might bridge the gap over time, but the truth is there is still much
to be done. We would wish to see more supplementary budgets being done to
ensure we provide enough learning structures, classrooms and teachers,” he
said. He called for “creative and innovative” ways to address
the challenges in the meantime, such as sharing of facilities between primary
schools and neighbouring secondary schools. “We need to see how we can pair up a local day secondary school
and a local primary school adjacent to each other so that they can share
existing facilities in the secondary school. It is a painful reality that we
must juggle around for the sake of our children,” said Governor Mutai. The ongoing teacher recruitment will see the
government recruit 35, 550 teachers this month, 10,000 of who will be
employed on permanent pensionable terms while the other 25,550 will be on internship. On Monday, Education Cabinet Secretary Ezekiel
Machogu announced that the government has already set aside
Ksh.15,000 for each of the over 1 million students
joining JSS this month.  Machogu said the students will not be required
to pay any school fees or admission fees, and apart from those in schools
with boarding wings.