Germany said on
Wednesday it would supply its Leopard 2 tanks to Ukraine, overcoming misgivings
about sending heavy weaponry that Kyiv sees as crucial to defeat Russia's
invasion but Moscow casts as a dangerous provocation. Pressure has been
building for weeks on German Chancellor Olaf Scholz's government to send the
tanks and allow NATO allies to do the same before expected spring offensives by
both sides. Scholz's government
had stalled, wary of moves that could prompt Russia to escalate the war or
draw NATO into becoming a party to the conflict. Germany's decision
paves the way for other countries such as Poland, Spain, Finland, the
Netherlands and Norway to supply some of their Leopard tanks to Ukraine, going
some way towards delivering the hundreds of tanks that Ukraine says it needs. "Germany will
always be at the forefront when it comes to supporting Ukraine," Scholz
told German parliament to applause. "...because there really is a war in
Europe - not far from here in Berlin it is taking place against a big country
like Ukraine." Germany must do
everything possible "but at the same time we must prevent the war from
escalating into a war between Russia and NATO," he said. Hoping to allay
concerns about sending the weapons, Scholz asked Germans to trust his
government to ensure there was no increased risk to their country and to
coordinate steps with allies. Ukrainian President
Volodymyr Zelenskiy thanked Scholz for Germany's "important and timely
decisions", saying they were a "green light for partners to supply
similar weapons". Germany aims to
quickly establish two battalions with Leopard 2 tanks for Ukraine and initially
provide 14 Leopard 2 tanks from its own inventory. A battalion normally
comprises three or four companies with around 14 tanks each. Poland has
also pledged 14 tanks and Britain has promised 14 of its own
Challengers. Germany's tanks would
probably be ready in three-four months, Defence Minister Boris Pistorius said. Training of Ukrainian
troops in Germany will begin soon, and Germany will also provide logistics and
ammunition. Germany said it would also issue the appropriate transfer permits
to partner countries that want to deliver Leopard 2 tanks quickly from their
own stocks. RUSSIA CRITICISES
GERMANY'S DECISION Russia has portrayed
deliveries of heavy weapons to Ukraine as proof that the West is escalating the
war. The Russian embassy to
Berlin accused Germany of making an "extremely dangerous
decision" and abandoning its "historical responsibility to
Russia" arising from Nazi crimes in World War Two. The embassy said the
tank deliveries would escalate the conflict to a new level and lead to
"permanent escalation". The Leopards, used by
armies across Europe, are widely seen as the best option for Ukraine as they
are available in large numbers and relatively easy to deploy and maintain. NATO Secretary-General
Jens Stoltenberg said the alliance needed to provide Ukraine even more support
to be able to liberate its territory. Though some countries have already
come forward with pledges, the overall number of tanks Ukraine could expect to
receive was not immediately clear. "A contingent of
at least 300 tanks would really make a difference," said Felix Arteaga,
senior analyst at the Elcano Spanish think-tank. "And right now,
with the offers from the various allied countries, only around 100 tanks would
be sent, which would not really be enough to change the course of the
war." Washington may drop
its opposition to sending perhaps dozens of its M1 Abrams tanks to Kyiv.
The Abrams is seen as less suitable for Ukraine due to its heavy fuel
consumption and greater maintenance needs, but such a move could ease German
concerns about presenting a united front among Ukraine's allies. Asked whether France
would send Leclerc tanks, a French government official said there was "no
taboo" on such tanks but France was keen to be "efficient" and
was studying the option independently of what Berlin and Washington were doing. Kyiv has pleaded for
months for Western tanks, which it says will give its forces the firepower and
mobility to break through Russian defensive lines and recapture occupied
territory. Britain and Poland
welcomed Germany's decision, which Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki
described as "a big step towards stopping Russia."  