The National Cohesion and
Integration Commission (NCIC) has summoned Korogocho MCA Absalom Odhiambo over
alleged inciteful remarks made on Monday during an Azimio la Umoja One Kenya coalition
party rally at the Kamukunji Grounds. This comes after the vocal MCA, in
a viral video captured at the rally, is heard criticising the Kenya Kwanza
leadership while stirring up Azimio supporters in readiness for industrial
action in the capital. The Rev. Samuel Kobia-led
commission, in a statement to newsrooms on Friday, took issue with the ODM politician’s
remarks, directing him to appear at its offices on Monday next week. “Political development in the last
few days is creating unnecessary tension that if not well managed can plunge
the country into chaos,” stated the NCIC Chairperson. “A case in point is the utterances
by Korogocho Member of County Assembly Hon. Absalom Odhiambo Onyango at the
Azimio La Umoja Alliance rally at the Kamukunji grounds on Monday 23rd January
2022 which inter alia invoked ethnic hatred while inciting Kenyans to violence.
Therefore, we have summoned Hon. Absalom Odhiambo Onyango to record a
statement.” Dr. Kobia went on to urge political
leaders to shun ethnic politics which may upset the current state of peace in
the country and cause division among political groups. “As a Commission, we applaud all
Kenyans and political actors for following due processes to ensure that the
country remained peaceful despite the electoral outcome,” he said. “We call upon all leaders to stop
actions and rhetoric that can trigger violence. For if unchecked violence
started in one place will be repeated in another and the whole country will
burn before long. In such an event, nobody wins and all of us lose.” The commission consequently
implored citizens to accord the Head of State “respect and honour,” reiterating
his role as a symbol of national unity. “We wish to remind Kenyans that the
President who is also Head of State is the symbol of national unity.
Consequently, any actions that undermine the presidency will not only damage
the national cohesion but will also injure peace and unity among Kenyans,” Dr. Kobia
noted. 