A US man sentenced to
death for taking captive and then murdering an elderly couple was to be
executed Thursday in Oklahoma after officials agreed his priest could be in the
execution chamber. Scott Eizember, 62, is
scheduled to be executed by lethal injection at 10:00 am (1600 GMT) in the
penitentiary in McAlester in the central US state. Eizember murdered A.J.
Cantrell and Patsy Maye Cantrell, both in their 70s, on October 18, 2003. "After holding
the Cantrells captive for hours, Eizember shot Mrs Cantrell and repeatedly
bludgeoned Mr Cantrell in the head with the same shotgun," the Oklahoma
attorney general said in a statement. "Eizember then
made himself a snack and drank and sat in the house, unbothered, as A.J. and
Patsy languished and died." In 2005 he was
convicted and sentenced to death. Last September he was
visited by Jeffrey Hood, a priest of the Old Catholic denomination who is
opposed to capital punishment. The two grew close and
Eizember sought to have Hood present when he died. On January 4 prison
officials refused the request, concerned that Hood's militant opposition to the
death penalty could disrupt the execution and upset the family of the victims. Hood and Eizember sued
over the decision, saying the authorities were "hostile toward
religion." "They deny a
prisoner his chosen spiritual advisor at the most critical juncture of his
life: his death," they said. On Wednesday prison
authorities reversed their decision and accepted the request, saying it was
important to bring the case to an end. "The family
members of the victims, in this case, are ready for closure," said Oklahoma
Corrections Department Director Steven Harpe in a statement. "They understand
that the lawsuit challenging the decision to deny chamber access to the
activist could lead to Thursday's execution being stayed," he said.  "Far too often,
it is the victim and the victim's family who are overlooked in these cases. We
want to make sure their concerns are heard instead of everything being solely
about the inmate," he added.