The
Council of Governors (COG) Chair, Anne Waiguru, has urged the Independent
Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) to carry out an intensive assessment of the 2022 General Election in order to inform the conduct of the next electoral
cycle. Speaking
during the Post-Election Evaluation forum hosted by IEBC on Monday, Waiguru noted
that there was need to look at what worked, what failed and the lessons learned
so as to come up with recommendations that will inform the strategies to be
employed to make the 2027 general election a success. Congratulating
the IEBC for conducting free and fair elections, the governor said that the post-election
evaluation is a key activity that marks the end of one electoral cycle and the
beginning of another one. “This
assessment is based on the commission’s Strategic Plan, Election Operations
Plan and International best practices in election management,” said the governor. The
forum was attended by Chief Justice Martha Koome, Speaker of the National
Assembly Moses Wetangula, Speaker of the Senate Amason Kingi, Attorney
General Justin Muturi and other dignitaries including high commissioners and
heads of various institutions. Waiguru
who is also the governor of Kirinyaga County said that governors, being agents
of peace in their respective counties had lived to their pre-election pledge of
fully supporting the IEBC and other agencies throughout the electioneering
period. She
noted that the evaluation that has been concluded is expected to build on the
2017 evaluation and is expected to outline the lessons leaned, findings, and
recommendations and how they informed the 2022 elections. The
governor called on all the stakeholders to reflect and take stock of what
happened in the previous elections and most importantly on the just concluded
elections so as to help improve the conduct of the next polls. “It
is often not comfortable to subject self to scrutiny but it is the only way
that one can grow. Remaining transparent and accountable is key and indeed, the
hallmark of good governance and the foundation of the Constitution of Kenya,” the Governor told the commission. She
pointed out that some of the fundamental issues and critical areas that needed
to be addressed included legal, policy and administrative frameworks that will
inform and guide the activities of IEBC in the conduct of free and fair
elections. Other aspects that she said needed to be outlined include risk assessment, recruitment, training and placement of electoral
personnel, political parties’ nominations, voter registration, voter education and information, logistical issues,
electoral observations, the actual voting process, counting, tallying, dispute
resolution, the announcement of results, electoral security, among others.  