Mountainous Nepal, where dozens of people were killed on Sunday when a plane
crashed in the tourist town of Pokhara, has a history of deadly air crashes. Here are details of plane and
helicopter crashes this century in the Himalayan country, where several
airlines fly to small airports in remote hills and mountains shrouded in clouds
and cut off from roads. Before Sunday's crash, 273
people had been killed in the country in 17 air crashes since 2000. A twin-engine ATR 72 aircraft
carrying 72 people, operated by Nepal's Yeti Airlines, crashed in Pokhara,
killing at least 68. It was the worst air crash in
the country since 1992 when all 167 people aboard a Pakistan International
Airlines plane were killed when it ploughed into a hill as it tried to land in
Nepal's capital of Kathmandu. Sixteen Nepalis, four Indians
and two Germans died on a De Havilland Canada DHC-6-300 Twin Otter aircraft
that crashed 15 minutes after taking off from Pokhara, 125 km (80 miles) west of Kathmandu. Operated by Yeti unit Tara Air, the aircraft made its first
flight in April 1979, according to flight-tracking website Flightradar24. A helicopter crashed in bad
weather in eastern Nepal, killing all seven people on board, including the
tourism minister. Fifty-one of 71 people on a
Bangladeshi airliner operated by US-Bangla Airlines died when it crashed in
cloudy weather as it came in to land at the Nepalese capital's hill-ringed
airport. Two people were feared dead
after a small plane crashed in western Nepal's Kalikot district. It was
operated by Kasthamandap Airlines. A small plane crashed in bad
weather, killing all 23 people on board. The Twin Otter aircraft, operated by
Tara Air, was on a flight from Pokhara. All 18 people on a small plane
that crashed in bad weather were killed. The Twin Otter aircraft was operated
by state-run Nepal Airlines Corp. A small propeller-driven Dornier
aircraft struck a bird and crashed shortly after takeoff from Kathmandu,
killing 19 people, including seven British and five Chinese passengers. A small plane carrying foreign
tourists to view Mount Everest crashed in bad weather near Kathmandu, killing
all 19 people on board. The Beech aircraft was operated
by private airline Buddha Air. A small plane crashed in the
Himalayan foothills of remote east Nepal, killing all 22 people onboard. The Twin Otter aircraft was
operated by Tara Air. Fourteen people - including
four Americans, a Japanese and British national - were killed when their small
plane crashed in bad weather in Nepal. It was operated by privately held Agni
Air. A small Twin Otter plane
crashed in the remote mountains of northeast Nepal, killing at least 18 people,
mostly foreigners. Four U.N. arms monitors were
among at least 10 people killed in a helicopter crash in Nepal. A Twin Otter passenger plane
operated by Yeti Airlines crashed minutes before landing in the west of the
country, killing all nine people onboard. A Twin Otter cargo plane
crashed in the Mount Everest region, killing its three crew. It was operated by
Yeti Airlines. Another Twin Otter plane,
carrying foreign tourists, slammed into a mountain in bad weather in Nepal,
killing all 18 people on board. It was operated by Shangrila Air. Four people were feared dead
after a twin-engined aircraft crashed into a mountain in west Nepal minutes
before it was due to land. A Canadian-built Twin Otter
passenger plane crashed in western Nepal, killing all 25 people on board. It
was operated by state-owned Royal Nepal Airlines.