The Employment and Labour Relations Court has ruled
that the decision by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC)
to interdict Deputy Chief Executive Officer Ruth Kulundu was unlawful. While
suspending the decision, the court noted that Kulundu has made a proper case
adding that no party will suffer prejudice if the decision is suspended "It is
safe to conclude that the charges were about insubordination and threat to
staff…," the court noted. Kulundu was
suspended from office by IEBC CEO Marjan Hussein Marjan on allegations
of gross misconduct, insubordination and participation in illegal activities,
contrary to her employment terms of service. Marjan, in the interdiction letter sent on
Tuesday, accused Kulundu of impersonation and arranging an illegal commission
plenary meeting, during which four commissioners who disputed the 2022
presidential election results picked law firms that would represent the
commission in the presidential election petition filed by Azimio la Umoja One
Kenya Presidential candidate Raila Odinga. It is during that meeting, where four IEBC
commissioners; Vice Chair Juliana Cherera, Francis Wanderi, Irene Masit and
Justus Nyang’aya, who differed with Chairman Wafula Chebukati settled on
lawyers Paul Muite and Issa Mansur to represent the commission in a
presidential election petition filed by Odinga and his running mate Martha
Karua. The move was protested by Chebukati, through
his legal team, led by former Attorney General Prof. Githu Muigai, prompting
the Supreme Court bench headed by Chief Justice Martha Koome to settle the
dispute. Marjan claimed Kulundu
impersonated him and usurped his responsibilities by performing duties bestowed
on the CEO’s office. She is also accused of
issuing commission staff with threats and intimidation, contrary to IEBC
regulations and rules of conduct. One of the complainants is Acting
Director of Voter Registration and Electoral Operations Moses Sunkuli.  In the show cause
letter dated August 29, 2022, Kulundu had been given 14 days to respond to the
allegations that Marjan termed gross misconduct and a serious violation of her
employment contract, whose consequences included dismissal from service if
found culpable.