 The boat was carrying 28 passengers including Captain and Crew onboard on Saturday afternoon. According to a statement from the Emergency Response at Watamu Marine Park on Sunday, it has been discovered that the ill-fated water vessel had taken Tourists - 13 Kenyan residents and 15 foreigners - on a snorkeling tour. The number onboard, the report indicates, had exceeded the capacity of the vessel and therefore acted as a huge contributor to the capsizing when the vessel was hit by "bad weather". "Possibility of bad weather at the time and in the later hours of the day also contributed to the accident considering the above inappropriate condition," read part of the statement. A collaborative effort from the county Rescue Team, KWS and Private Volunteers to rescue the passengers saw a total of 24 tourists saved. "Unfortunately three lost their lives; two bodies were retrieved yesterday with one more remaining," read the statement. "The rest were taken to Hospital for checkups and treatment for injuries incurred. All were released, with only one (1) in hospital still receiving treatment." Meanwhile, rescue operations are still ongoing. The Kilifi county government has now ordered the department of Public Service and Disaster Management to carry out an inspection on all boats operating along the Kilifi coastline. All boats operating along the coastline have also been mandated to be equipped with safety jackets as well as no boat shall leave the shores without all its occupants wearing a safety jacket and carry within its capacity. The county government has also affirmed that patrons at the beach will be increased to ensure there is safety compliance, and ensure timely response to emergencies and incidents. Members of the public have been urged to be vigilant and report non-compliant operators to ensure safety for passengers. The County Government has expressed its sympathies and condolences to families who have lost their loved ones and wished quick recovery to those who sustained injuries.