The Kenya Medical Practitioners, Pharmacists and Dentists
Union (KMPDU) on Thursday announced that it had suspended its planned
industrial action after holding talks with the government through the Council
of Governors (CoG) and the Ministry of Health. KMPDU Secretary General Dr. Davji Atellah, in a subsequent
statement to newsrooms, announced that although a final agreement had not been
reached, they had decided to give dialogue with the State another chance. Dr. Atellah stated that they were extending “another olive
branch” to the government due to the goodwill and efforts that had been shown
by the President William Ruto administration to resolve the issues they had
raised in accordance with the 2017-2021 Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA). Citizen
Digital has since obtained a copy of the resolutions reached by KMPDU and the
government, in a meeting held on January 4, 2023, that was crucial in getting
the medics to back down on their strike threats. The
meeting, which followed a series of others held in December last year, was
attended by the KMPDU leadership led by Dr. Atellah, Health Cabinet Secretary
Wafula Nakhumicha, and CoG committee bosses among them Johnson Sakaja (Labour),
and Muthomi Njuki (Health). According
to the resolutions, KMPDU will present to the government a list of all county
governments that do not have medical cover for doctors in a bid to ensure that
the same is pursued and implemented. The
Ministry of Health, as per the deal, committed to posting a total of 1,000
medical interns by the second week of January this year, and further ensuring
that this is done continually and in a timely manner. The
union and the government however agreed to shelve the matter of employment of
specific numbers of doctors per year until the next CBA negotiations slated for
mid-February this year. County
governments are however required to have ascertained the number of doctors that
they can comfortably employ and maintain by the time of the said talks. The
resolutions also stated that the CS Wafula-led health ministry agreed to pay
fees for all doctors on post-graduate studies effective immediately. KMPDU
will further forward to the ministry a list of doctors denied release to pursue
post-graduate training by their respective counties by March 15, 2023. The
Dr. Atellah-led union was also tasked with submitting a list of county
governments yet to promote doctors, as well as furnish all the devolved units
with the CBA proposal immediately.  “Governors
to share the experience with the other Governors facing salary delays on how to
manage the issue to ensure that salaries are paid by the 5th of
every month,” read the substantive agreement.