The
High Court in Nairobi has ordered embattled police officer Ahmed Rashid to
surrender to the Garissa Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) offices
or have a warrant of arrest issued against him by the end of the day. Sergeant
Rashid is facing murder charges over the March 31, 2017 killings of two
suspected thugs in Eastleigh; an incident that was captured on camera. Milimani
High Court Judge Kanyi Kimondo, in a ruling issued on Thursday, stated that the
alleged killer cop is yet to take plea in the case as he has not yet been
subjected to a psychiatric evaluation. Justice
Kimondo added that, while Rashid disclosed that he is presently in Garissa, the
evaluation can only be conducted at the Mathari Teaching and Referral Hospital
in Nairobi. “Accordingly,
I order that the suspect SGT. Ahmed Rashid do surrender himself to the DCIO
Offices Garissa Township — Mr. Muli Assistant Superintended of Police or the
Senior most officer in-charge of the station; or the CCIO, Charles Ndungu,
Commissioner of Police before the end of the day today (Thursday),” read court
papers. “The
suspect be escorted to Nairobi to take the said psychiatric examination. In
default, a warrant of arrest do issue.” Justice
Kimondo added: “For the avoidance of doubt, if the suspect voluntarily
surrenders to the police as above ordered, and proceeds for the examination,
the police will be at liberty to release him on bond on terms to be determined
by the officer commanding the station.” The
judge further ordered police officers in Nairobi to produce him in court, albeit virtually, to take plea in the
case on February 9, 2023. Respondents in the case include the Independent Policing
Oversight Authority (IPOA), the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions
(O DPP), the Inspector General of Police, as well as the Eastleigh Business
Community.  The business community, which has a membership of 24,000
people, has since urged the ODPP to drop the charges against officer
Rashid saying he acted within the law.