 Government pathologist Johansen Oduor told the media after conducting the autopsy on the late Chiloba that the activist's body had no physical injuries. Although more tests will be performed to determine whether the late Chiloba was drugged prior to being suffocated, Dr Oduor established he died from lack of oxygen. “Hatukupata majeraha yoyote kwa mwili wake ndio maana tukachukua samples ili tujue mbona hakuwa anaresist wakati alikuwa anafanyiwa vile,” Dr Oduor added. Dr Oduor said they discovered three pieces of socks stuffed into the late Chiloba's mouth, cutting off his air supply, and a pair of denim pants covering his mouth and nose during the autopsy. “Pia tulipata kuwa alikuwa amewekwa socks kwa mdomo ili kufanya ikuwe ngumu kupumua,” Dr Oduor added. The government pathologist also dismissed claims that the late activist's eyes were gouged out during the heinous murder. According to him, the deceased's body was not dismembered, and those who first saw him may have mistaken the sunken eyes, caused by decomposition, for removal. Meanwhile, police officers investigating the matter are holding five suspects in connection to the murder. The five, including three minors, were arraigned at the Eldoret Law Courts on Monday, where the prosecution requested the suspects be detained for 21 more days to pave the way for investigations. It is suspected that Chiloba was murdered at an apartment in Chepkolel, Moiben, where he lived with Jackton Odhiambo, who is said to be his boyfriend and who police are treating as the main suspect. Others being held include a cousin to the main suspect, a friend and a taxi driver police believe aided in the disposal of the fashion designer’s body. The prosecution wanted more time because a postmortem is yet to be conducted, and the Toyota Fielder allegedly used to dispose of the body, as well as the apartment has not been subjected to forensic examination. One day prior to his death, Odhiambo detailed that he and the deceased had visited a club whose CCTV footage is yet to be examined. The handset used by the deceased is also yet to be recovered, while police say they are still pursuing more suspects who are yet to be arrested. As the investigation into the murder deepens, the US government has offered assistance to ensure that investigations are completed and the perpetrators are brought to justice. During a press conference on Tuesday, US Department of State spokesman Ned Price called the murder an "ultimate act of intolerance" and urged law enforcement to apprehend the suspects as soon as possible. "Ultimately the ultimate act of intolerance has no place in free and open societies. We made the point last week that we urge and expect the Kenyans to conduct a thorough and transparent investigation into his death. And of course, if there’s anything we can do to assist, we stand ready to do that," he said.