The Kenya National Bureau of Statistics
(KNBS) Director General Macdonald Obudho has sought to allay fears of
misreporting figures in the 2022 Kenya Demographic and Health Survey (KDHS) report released on Tuesday. Mr Obudho,
who spoke on Citizen TV’s NewsNight show on Tuesday, defended the survey which
has since elicited mixed reactions from a section of the public saying it was thoroughly
conducted. The DG
was referring to figures in the report indicating that Kenyan men have an
average of seven sex partners while Murang’a women and Migori men lead in the number of
sexual partners. He said
the bureau had conducted intensive field research and received feedback from
over 40,000 respondents with a focus on credibility to present a factual
report. “We
interviewed over 40,000 respondents and we are not singling out anybody to have
given this kind of question. When we collect the data, as we are now doing the
analysis, we anonymised the data so that it is not possible to know who gave
what kind of a response,” Mr. Obudho explained. “For us
to ensure we get it right, it starts with the respondents…be as sincere as
possible. I know that if we don’t get the right information then it will be
misleading the country and so we are very cautious.” He added:
“Statistical operations in the country are very expensive, we require a lot of
resources and time and so we had the opportunity to go to the field.” The report,
which comes eight years after a similar one was last released, became subject
of debate across social media platforms. The study
revealed that among Kenyan men, the average
number of sexual partners is 7.4, while the average number of sexual partners
for women is 2.3. Likewise,
Murang’a County topped with 11 per cent of its women said to be having multiple
sexual partners followed by Kericho and Busia counties with 6.5% and 6.2%
respectively.  As for the men, Migori County led with 28.7
per cent of them admitting to having more than two sexual partners followed by
Elgeyo Marakwet with 28.5% and West Pokot with 27.2%.  