Detectives in Eldoret, Uasin Gishu County, have arrested one suspect in connection
with the gruesome murder of 26-year-old model and fashion designer Edwin
Chiloba. Eyewitnesses reported seeing unknown
assailants drop off the metallic box by the roadside before speeding off. The family of the deceased, still reeling in
shock at the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital morgue, wants justice for their
kin as human rights activists continue to condemn the murder. His sister Melvin Faith said: “Hao watu
wajitokeze at least tujue chenye ilifanyika mpaka wakamuua kwa kifo ambayo
hatukutarajia. Ata angemuua tu mahali tuende tumuokote kuliko amuue amweke kwa
sanduku.” “Kitendo alichofanyiwa ni kibaya sana;
aliwekewa socks kwa mdomo, macho imeng’olewa…kweli amenfanyiwa kiunyama mbaya sana,”
added Matthew Kiprono, a close relative. Chiloba’ sister recounts their last moments
together, at an entertainment joint in Eldoret town on New Year’s Eve; the reunion
was however short-lived. “On 31st I was with him, alikuja huku kuvuka
mwaka and that’s when we met with him tukavuka mwaka vizuri, and then baadaye he
wished me bye. From hiyo siku sikumpigia simu tena, he was the one to call me
but unfortunately sikuona call yake,” she said. It is 
along the Kipkenyo - Katinga road where residents made a distress call
on Wednesday afternoon after unknown assailants dumped a metallic box and sped
off. Preliminary investigations revealed that Chiloba’s
eye was gouged out and he had other injuries. An autopsy was conducted on the
body on Friday. “Mauwaji haya yametuweka chini sana kama
familia kwa sababu Edwin alikuwa kijana wetu wa kipekee ambaye tulikuwa
tunamtegemea na alikuwa anaonyesha kwamba ako na bright future. Mwenye alifanya
kitendo hicho amfichue na alipishe kisasi, serikali wafuatilie kwa sababu Edwin
alikuwa mtu wa watu,” said Gladys Kiptoo, another sister to the deceased. Chiloba, a 4th-year student at the University
of Eldoret, had a promising future; he had carved a niche for himself as a
model and fashion designer, and he was also vocal on matters LGBTQ. His death has sparked public outcry, with human
rights organisations condemning the incident and calling for speedy
investigations. “We’re shocked and very concerned by the
nrutal murder of Edwin Chiloba. The information that is coming through, and of
course it is still very early, is that he was murdered potentially as a result
of his sexual orientation,” said Amnesty International Director Irungu Houghton. "He was
well known in Eldoret where he lived, he had a fashion business that he was
involved in and although it is too early to say whether this is another hate
crime, it is another example of how LGBTQ persons in this country still do not
feel safe because of the high levels of homophobia.”  Police in Langas have arrested a suspect
linked to the murder, and are currently
interrogating him as calls to unravel the mystery surrounding  the murder. 