Bandits daringly lit fires a short distance from where Interior
Cabinet Secretary Prof. Kithure Kindiki was addressing a public baraza in Tiaty,
Baringo County, on Saturday. Another group of bandits shot and injured three people in Turkana
South hours after CS Kindiki left Nadapal area. The Interior chief said the government will employ all means
possible to eliminate the bandits who have caused untold suffering for
residents of the region. Kindiki’s security visit to Baringo County saw him make
stopovers in several perceived bandit hotspots to assess the security situation. Following President William Ruto’s directive to ensure all
schools in the conflict stricken Baringo are open, Kindiki’s first stop was at Kapindasum
Primary School, one of the worst affected schools in the area that has been on
and off for the past two years. Arabal Primary School is another one institution that has not
had a bell ring since February last year. With just a hand full of students back, parents say they’re
keeping their children at home fearing that bandits are lurking in the bush. And lurking they were, during CS Kindiki’s visit there, as smoke
was seen bellowing from the nearby forest; the action of some daring bandits
showing the Interior CS that they were not far from where he was. “Wanazunguka hapa na madharau na kejeli na kelele vile wako na
silaha na vile sisi hatuwezi fanya kitu. We arę going to move in and use all
the human resource we have, we will, by land and by air, from wherever they are,”
stated the CS. Kindiki said the bandits have crossed the line and touched a
raw nerve, promising more than just empty talk to Baringo and the North. “Sasa naona wametuzoea, na mimi nasema ya kwamba nadhani
hawajui sisi ni new dispensation, wacha nikuambie hii Baringo sitawachana nayo
mpaka wakati wataisha,” he added. Area Governor Benjamin Cheboy called on the government to move
in and conduct forceful disarmament in addition to the formation of a special
team with the goal of pacifying all bandit prone areas in the country. CS Kindiki also called on residents who had fled their homes
for fear of bandit attacks to go back home assuring them of their security. “Nataka tusimamishe mambo ya mikutano ya hadhara, serikali na
wananchi pande moja, na magaidi pande moja, wacha tupambane na wao sasa,”
stated Kindiki. This even as yet another daring attack was orchestrated by
bandits on the village of Lokwar in Kaputir location, Turkana South.  The attack that saw three shot and injured including a student
happened hot on the heels of Kindiki’s visit to Nadapal in the volatile north
of Turkana.