Kenya National Bureau of Statistics (KNBS)
Director General Macdonald Obudho has revealed that the national government
worked in tandem with developing partners to fund the 2022 Kenya Demographic
and Health Survey (KDHS) report. Speaking on Citizen TV's NewsNight show on
Tuesday, Mr. Obudho however noted that the developing partners contributed a
large chunk of the financing. According to the KNBS boss, the State made up
for this by providing relevant human resources and personnel to assist in the
compiling of the aforesaid report which was carried out
from between February 17 to July 13, 2022. "In terms of funding, we had to bring
together the government and developing partners. Developing partners covered a
big chunk of the funding but the government gave support in terms of financial
resources together with personnel because the whole personnel that undertook
the survey was coming from the government side," Mr. Obudho told show host
Waihiga Mwaura. He added that planning and budget formulation
were of great importance prior to the commissioning of the report, whose last
volume he revealed was released eight years ago. "It is a question of planning and coming
up with the budget that works for the survey. It started with the bureau of statistics
just coming with basics required, after which we formed the committees. We had
three levels of the committee," he said. "The secretariat dealt with day-to-day
activities, the technical committee was responsible for tech-related issues
while the steering committee dealt with matters relating to sourcing for
resources. The key thing is the financial resources, then the human resources,
tools required to undertake the activity and the time required for the
same." According to the survey, the number of sexual
partners among Kenyan men is 7.4 while the average number of sexual partners
for Kenyan women is 2.3. “Of those
with more than one partner in the last 12 months, 24% of women and 45% of men
reported using a condom during their last sexual intercourse,” the report said.