Myanmar's junta said it
would hold "free and fair" multiparty elections as it marked
Independence Day on Wednesday, days after increasing democracy figurehead Aung
San Suu Kyi's jail term to 33 years. Swaths of the Southeast
Asian country have been engulfed by fighting between junta troops and anti-coup
rebels since the military seized power almost two years ago. The junta, which recently
wrapped up a series of closed-court trials of Suu Kyi, is preparing for fresh
elections later this year that the United States has said would be a
"sham". "Upon accomplishing the
provisions of the state of emergency, free and fair elections will be held in
line with the 2008 constitution," junta chief Min Aung Hlaing told troops
and supporters in Naypyidaw. The junta-imposed state of
emergency is due to expire at the end of January, after which the constitution
states authorities must set in motion plans to hold fresh elections. The junta chief gave no
timetable for any election. Myanmar's military has made
unsubstantiated allegations of massive voter fraud during elections in November
2020, which were won resoundingly by Suu Kyi's National League for Democracy,
as a reason for its coup. International observers said
at the time the polls were largely free and fair. The junta-appointed election
commission was meeting with political parties for discussions on "the
proportional representation electoral system", Min Aung Hlaing said,
without giving further details. Analysts say the junta may
scrap the first-past-the-post system that saw Suu Kyi's National League for
Democracy win sweeping majorities in 2020 and 2015. Tanks, missile launchers and
armoured cars rolled through the dawn air to a parade ground in the capital
Naypyidaw in a military display marking 75 years since Myanmar gained
independence from Britain. Civil servants and high
school students followed the troops, accompanied by a military band as
750 "peace" doves were released to mark the occasion, according
to state media. The junta -- which regularly
marks holidays with prisoner amnesties -- later announced 7,012 prisoners would
be freed, without specifying whether the amnesty would include those jailed as
part of its crackdown on dissent. Those convicted of crimes
including murder, rape, and terrorism would not be eligible, it said, without
providing further details. Families later gathered
outside Yangon's Insein prison in the hope their loved ones would be freed,
local media reported. Junta spokesman Zaw Min Tun
did not respond to an AFP request for comment on whether Suu Kyi would be moved
from her prison to house arrest as part of the amnesty. "We are still
collecting information, and have no details yet for how many political
prisoners were released," said Bo Kyi, joint secretary from local monitoring
group Assistance Association for Political Prisoners. Myanmar declared
independence from British colonial rule on January 4, 1948, after a long fight
championed by General Aung San, the father of ousted civilian leader Suu Kyi. The junta has handed out
hundreds of awards and medals to its supporters in the run-up to the event,
including to a firebrand monk known for his role in stirring up religious
hatred in Myanmar. Wirathu -- dubbed "The
Buddhist bin Laden" by Time Magazine in 2013 following deadly communal
riots -- was awarded the title of "Thiri Pyanchi" on Tuesday, for
"outstanding work for the good of the Union of Myanmar". Independence Day is normally
marked with festive street games, marches, and gatherings in public parks and
spaces. But celebrations of public
holidays have been largely muted since the coup as people stay home in protest
against the junta. AFP correspondents said
there was an increased security presence in the commercial hub Yangon, which
has been hit by a string of bomb attacks in recent months. Russian President Vladimir
Putin, meanwhile, marked the day by sending "sincere greetings",
adding that he anticipated the "further development" of relations,
according to state-run newspaper Global New Light of Myanmar. Russia is a major ally and
arms supplier of the isolated junta, which has said Moscow's invasion of
Ukraine almost a year ago was "justified". Two Sukhoi Su-30 jets and
two MiG-29s made a flyby as part of the parade, state media said.  More than 13,000 people
arrested in the junta's crackdown on dissent remain in detention according to
figures published on Tuesday by AAPP.