Three
middle-aged men from Tinderet, Nandi County, lost
their lives while over eight others were rescued after a gold mine they
were working at collapsed on Monday. It
is said the mine caved in when a competitor mine set off explosives while extracting
gold. The
casualties were rushed to different health facilities in Nandi and Kisumu
Counties for medication and were stable by press time. In
a statement, the mining company, Karebe Gold Mining Ltd, said it was saddened
by the death of the three, whom it termed as “hard-working, loyal employees”. “Our staff were killed instantly when a wall
built to prevent the mine against flooding and illegal incursion was blasted
illegally by illegal miners. A further three members of our staff were injured
and have been taken to hospital for treatment,” the company said. The company further expressed frustration
with authorities over alleged ignorance to complaints of
illegal miners operating in the area. “Our sorrow is compounded by deep frustration
that our calls to address the danger posed by illegal miners operating in our
license area have not been answered by the relevant authorities, despite court orders
prohibiting mining activities within the disputed area,” the statement read. Since January 2021, the company said it has
been pushing the relevant senior government officials to address an “illegal
mining incursion” on their license area, which it said has posed a threat to
the safety and wellbeing of its staff and company, to no avail. “We also expressed our fears in face-to-face
meetings with the County Security Committee on Thursday 19th January at which
Karebe raised grave concerns about ongoing illegal mining activities,
especially the potential dangers caused by illegal blasting,” added the company. The statement further said that on the
fateful day, a government official visited Karebe, met with the illegal miners
and instructed them to cease action. “We are struggling to control clashes that
have broken out between members of our local community and individuals engaged
in illegal mining. We call on the authorities to bring the persons responsible
for this brutal crime - including those who have ignored our warnings for so
long - to justice.” Chemase/Chemelil
Ward Member of County Assembly Martin Douglas Balala regretted the incident and
termed it as the government’s failure in managing the tussle between Karebe the
other unlicensed miner.  Following
the incident, thousands of angry villagers chased away local chiefs and police officers,
accusing them of laxity in discharging their duties.