President William Ruto
has pledged to initiate new development projects in Nyanza and complete those
initiated by his predecessor Uhuru Kenyatta during the handshake era in the last
administration. President Ruto, who
is on a two-day tour of Nyanza region, said the country had turned a new leaf
after the August 9th presidential contest and he would ensure equitable
distribution of the national cake, regardless of how Kenyans voted. Ruto’s forays in Nyanza
were laced with political symbolism, five months after the general election. The four counties of
Kisumu, Siaya, Homa Bay and Migori did not dance to his hustler political tune
and voted almost to man for his prime competitor in the presidential contest, Azimio
la Umoja One Kenya coalition party flagbearer Raila Odinga. “We voted nearly 100
per cent for Azimio and we are Baba’s people, but we thank you that you have
agreed as the President of the nation to come together with us so that we can
develop our country moving forward,” said Homa Bay Governor Gladys Wanga. Deputy President Rigathi
Gachagua stated: “Umesema nyinyi ni watu wa Baba na ni kweli, kwani Baba ni wa
nani? Ata sisi Baba ni wetu, na kama Baba ni wetu na nyinyi ni watu wa Baba,
ata nyinyi ni watu wetu. Sisi hatuna issue na Baba, uchaguzi imeisha.” President Ruto on his
part noted: “Unajua Agwambo huko kwetu alipata 28%, kwa kina Rigathi alipata 25%...
hapa mlinipatia 1%.” Revisiting the August
9th presidential election voting pattern in Nyanza region, Odinga’s political
bedrock, made for an ice breaker. “We agree that the
people of Nyanza are citizens of Kenya by right, and it is not a favour that
because we pay taxes, we are citizens of this republic, and you have done well
to come and talk to us, even though najua kura tulikupatia kama apuoyo (rabbit)…lakini
hata hivyo ukaamua kuja kwetu,” said Homa Bay Senator Moses Kajwang. President Ruto
retorted: “Mimi naona kama Kajwang hajasema vizuri, amedanganyana… kwa sababu
ile nilitoka nayo hapa sio apuoyo (rabbit), ni oyieyo (rat).” The highlight of
President Ruto’s tour of Homa Bay County was the launch of the first phase of
an affordable housing construction project. Construction of the
5,000 housing units aims at resolving the housing deficit in the county and
boosting economic fortunes of the lakeside county. “Tutahakikisha ya
kwamba bei ya kulipa hiyo nyumba itakuwa ni kati ya shilingi elfu tano na elfu
kumi…na baada ya miaka kumi na tano, hiyo nyumba inakuwa yako, hakuna tena
mambo ya kulipa rent,” said President Ruto. In April 2018, Homa
Bay County became the first devolved unit to sign the affordable housing
memorandum of understanding with the national government and set aside 11.6
acres for the multimillion-shilling project. So far, 39 counties
have identified land on which the affordable houses will be constructed, with
the program cumulatively targeting to yield 599,000 housing units across the
country. “I want to commit to
you that as a county, what we have said is that we’re putting money with KCB
bank so that any of our young people and MSMEs that are given contracts here to
do, can go to the bank and take the money required,” said Governor Wanga. President Ruto added:
“Wakati tunajenga hii manyumba yote, wale mafundi na wafanyibiashara wote
watakaokuwa suppliers watakuwa ni watu wa hapa Homa Bay, hakuna mtu atatolewa
Nairobi, Kisumu…vijana wa Homa Bay ndio wataajiriwa ili waweze kushughulika na
mambo ya maendeleo ya kaunti hii.” The President also commissioned
the newly constructed Homa Bay Municipal Market, while promising a bag of
goodies for the Nyanza region during a two-hour closed-door meeting with
elected leaders. This includes new
roads and completing projects initiated by his predecessor Uhuru Kenyatta
during the handshake season. Construction of new
pier and a fish a processing from December this year was also in the
president’s bag of goodies. President Ruto also
officially opened an administration and lecture halls block at Tom Mboya University,
before ending his tour of Homa Bay County by gracing a football match in a
tournament organised by Governor Wanga.  On Saturday, Ruto
will tour Odinga’s home county of Siaya and Kisumu later in the day.