 News of former Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha's death at the Nairobi Hospital came just when burial plans were underway for his younger brother Prof. Richard Alex Nyabera Magoha. His body had just landed in the country from the United States when a cardiac arrest took his brother. According to an obituary seen by Citizen Digital, Nyabera passed away on December 6, 2022, in Allen, Texas, United States, with the cause of his death yet to be disclosed by the family. It further notes, however, that Nyabera was first got diagnosed with bladder carcinoma in August 2021. By that time cancer had already advanced to stage 4. "He was in hospital for about a month as the doctors fought to save some of his organs that were failing. He was not given much time to live due to the advanced stage of the disease," reads part of the obituary. "He was hospitalized two more times in the cause of the illness. He passed away surrounded and held by his family a year and four months later." His body arrived in Nairobi on Tuesday, shortly after news of the former Education CS's passing was made public. His funeral was slated to take place on January 28, 2022 in Siaya County but the family is yet to confirm with the passing of Magoha. The obituary describes Nyabera as a humorous, witty and indulgent individual who had a passion for academic work and politics and also a very good taste for clothes. Born on December 5, 1953, Prof. Richard Nyabera, the eighth born of 11 children, started schooling at Jina Primary School in the then Yala Division and later joined Starehe Boys Centre. After completing his studies he proceeded to the State University of New York. The 69-year-old Professor was the husband to Janet Achieng Magoha. They have three children namely Crystal Sara Aloo, Ashley Agnes Atieno and Bernard Boniface Magoha (Benny) who all reside in the US. In her tribute, Achieng remembers Nyabera as an irreplaceable, charismatic individual "whose light and impact is difficult to summarize in a few paragraphs." She further notes that Nyabera was a committed family man who oozed gentleness and kindness around his environs. "My husband Alex was one of the most loving, sensitive, and caring souls I have ever met. If he ever saw a need, he would focus on fulfilling it. He seldom needed to be asked - just taking it upon himself to take care of the problem at hand," she said. "When I was expecting his nurturing side would really show. Even though he started work at 7 am, he would be sure to have breakfast ready for me and warm it up in the oven. That was the love of my life and friend," he added. "Alex loved his children, and they were the world to him. He was not just a father figure, he was a loving, involved, and interested father." It remains unclear whether the family will now postpone Nyabera's final send-off or whether they will reschedule the interment in order to have the deceased brothers buried on the same day.