Cooperatives
and SMEs Cabinet Secretary Simon Chelugui has affirmed that the Hustler Fund
board will be constituted in the coming week as various state agencies commence background
checks into the recommended individuals who will sit on the body. According
to Chelugui, who spoke exclusively to Citizen TV, the names of the proposed
position holders have been forwarded to relevant state agencies including the
Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI), Ethics and Anti-Corruption
Commission (EACC) and the National Intelligence Service (NIS) for proper
background checks before the nominees are given the green light to oversight
the hustler fund. The
advisory board’s establishment is in accordance with the Public Finance
Management Regulations 2022 which was published as part of efforts by the
government to strengthen the program. "As
part of my oversight responsibility sent to agencies involved, we will gazette
the names and we will have a board by the end of next week," the CS told Citizen
TV's Maryanne Nyambura on the sidelines of the Cabinet Secretaries' retreat on
Nanyuki, Laikipia County on Thursday. Kenyans
saved over Ksh.600 million within 30 days of the Hustler Fund's establishment.
As per regulations, the funds are banked
in tier-one banks with the National Social Securities Fund (NSSF)  given the mandate to manage the funds. "NSSF
is onboard as an administrator while the custodial banks are tier 1. They are; KCB, COOP
and Equity; the money is safe. Savings are held in KCB and Family bank; 70% of
the savings will go to long-term pensions while the remaining 30% will go to
short-term which subscribers can access in a year," said the CS. This
is good news for Kenyans who are operating small and micro-medium enterprises
and members of cooperatives as the government embarks on launching the
project's second phase, issuing loans to SACCOs and cooperatives of between Ksh.100,000
to Ksh.2.5 Million from February. Since
the fund's inception we have disbursed Ksh.13.3 billion to 17.4 million Kenyans
who have so far repaid Ksh.5.5 billion," he said. "Ksh.651
million has so far been saved on the
fund and we are now discussing the launch of more products. Micro loans will be
delivered through the cooperative model."  The
source of money diverted to the loan project has been at the centre of
political discussions with CS Chelugui saying a supplementary budget will be
presented before Parliament when the House reconvenes in February as the Ksh.50
billion meant for the kitty was not allocated in the 2022/2023 budget.