President William Ruto has
said the government will embark on the registration of Kenyans onto a
digital platform similar to the Huduma Namba program. Speaking on Friday at the Kenyatta
International Convention Centre (KICC) during the observation of International
Data Privacy Day, President Ruto said the government will have the
system up and running before the end of the year. He said he would build on the
lessons learnt from the previous exercise and ensure Kenyans have a digital
identity this year. “I have also asked the Ministry of
ICT to work on a digital identity so that the big Huduma thing that never was
we can finally have, as Kenya, a digital identity,” he said. “I have told ICT CS Eliud Owalo that
by the end of this year, Kenyans must be able to identify themselves digitally
because it is not the work of the government to issue IDs but to identify
Kenyans.” The Head of State, who also
launched the Data Protection Registration system, said the Kenya Kwanza government will
pursue a data protection regime that serves public interests. He said it would be achieved by
ensuring that there is sufficient information for effective and efficient
delivery of services, further noting that the move will be pursued without
compromising private data. “We must also ensure that criminals
do not hide under data protection or exploit it to perpetuate crime,” said the
President. “For Kenya to realise the maximum
potential of the Digital Superhighway, we must have a clear data management
plan that is promotive of our agenda for the digital economy.” Kenyans started registering for the Huduma Namba in 2018 in
the first phase before it was fully launched in 2019. However, the High Court declared the Huduma card
unconstitutional in October 2021 after Katiba Institute, a lobby group, sued
the Interior ministry arguing that no safeguards had been given to assure
Kenyans that their data will not be abused as the rollout lacked guarantees of
theft or misuse of Kenyans personal information. During the registration process, the government used Ksh.10.6
billion to register 11 million Kenyans for Huduma namba. The controversial biometric identification scheme was launched
in order to create and manage a central database for information about
individual citizens. It involved collection of biometric data after which the
systems generate a unique number - the Huduma Namba - which would enable one to
access government services digitally. The government then argued that Huduma Namba was a useful tool
for the government to use in national planning, social services, project
resource allocation and even project infrastructure.