Strikes disrupted train
services, flights, schools and businesses in France on Thursday as labor unions
led huge protests against the government’s plans to raise the retirement age
for most workers. Protests in major French
cities, including Paris, Marseille, Toulouse, Nantes and Nice, brought
transport services to a standstill on Thursday. The Eiffel Tower was closed to
visitors, and the country’s energy network was also under strain. Eight of the biggest unions
had called for a “first day of strikes and protests” against pension reforms
unveiled by President Emmanuel Macron’s government. The legislation will require
French citizens to work until 64, from 62 currently, to qualify for a full
state pension. Philippe Martinez, secretary
general of France’s largest union CGT told journalists that he expected the
total number of protesters to exceed 1 million. Train lines across France were
seeing “severe disruption,” according to French rail authority SNCF. Metro
lines in Paris were hit by full or partial closures, the city transport
authority RATP said on Twitter. Meanwhile, Eurostar canceled
several services between the French capital and London, according to its
website, and flights at Orly airport in Paris have been scratched. Charles de Gaulle in Paris reported
“a few delays” due to striking air traffic controllers, but no cancellations. CGT, which recorded more than
200 protest events across the country, said that the majority of refinery
workers at TotalEnergies (TOT) have walked out, interrupting deliveries of oil
products. TotalEnergies (TOT) said that
fuel supplies at its network of gas stations would not be affected. More than 40% of primary
school teachers and more than one third of high school teachers are on strike,
according to France’s education ministry. France’s Interior Minister
Gerald Darmanin told French radio station RTL on Wednesday that over 10,000
police and military personnel will be deployed to the protests, including 3,500
officers stationed in Paris. Macron’s proposed pension
reforms come as workers in France, as elsewhere, are being squeezed by rising
food and energy bills. Nurses and ambulance drivers
in the United Kingdom are also striking on Thursday over pay and working
conditions. Thousands took part in mass
demonstrations on the streets of Paris last year protesting the cost of living,
and strikes by workers demanding higher pay caused fuel pumps to run dry across
the country a few months ago. “This reform falls at a moment
where there is lots of anger, lots of frustration, lots of fatigue. It’s coming
at the worst moment, in fact,” CFE-CGC union chief François Hommeril told CNN
on Tuesday, pointing to the inflation that has wracked Europe this year
following the Covid-19 pandemic and Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. The French government has said
that raising the retirement age is necessary to tackle a pension funding
deficit. France spent nearly 14% of GDP on state pensions in 2018, which is
more than most other countries, according to the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development. Government spokesperson
Olivier Veran told journalists Wednesday that 40% of French workers will be
able to retire before 64 under the proposed regime because of exceptions for
those who started work early or who have physically taxing jobs. “We have the most protective,
the most developed system in Europe [for pensions],” he said. “Even after the reforms, we
will retire in France better off and earlier than in almost all eurozone
countries,” he added. In Europe and in many other
developed economies, the age at which full pension benefits vest is 65 and increasingly
moving towards 67. Overhauling pensions has long
been a controversial issue in France, with street protests halting reform
efforts in 1995, and successive governments facing stiff resistance to changes
that eventually passed in 2004, 2008 and 2010. An earlier attempt by Macron
to revamp France’s pensions system was met with nationwide strikes in 2019
before being abandoned because of the Covid-19 pandemic.  French unions are due to meet
Thursday evening to decide on whether strike action should continue.