The Ministry of Health has began posting the first batch of over
800 medical interns to public hospitals countrywide, Cabinet Secretary Susan
Nakhumicha said on Monday. This is
in line with the commitment made by the ministry with the
Kenya Medical Practitioners, Pharmacists and Dentists Union (KMPDU) and the
Council of Governors on
January 4 to get the medics to back down on their strike threats. MoH, as
per the deal, committed to posting a total of 1,000 medical interns by the
second week of January this year, and further ensuring that this is done
continually and in a timely manner. In a statement on Monday,
CS Nakhumicha said some 874 medical interns will
be posted during the ongoing exercise. KMPDU Secretary General Dr. Davji
Atellah confirmed that the medical officers, pharmacists and dental officer
interns had been issued with posting letters as of Monday. “We acknowledge and laud the Ministry’s effort towards
ensuring industrial harmony in the sector and look forward to the posting of the remaining
200 officers within the financial year as promised,” Dr. Atellah said. “We are confident that
the industrial disharmony that has been arising from delays and failure to post
interns is now a thing of the past.” KMPDU had last year
threatened to lead its members in downing tools from January 6, 2023, accusing
the government of failing to honour its issues in accordance with the
2017-2021 Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA). Aside
from the posting of interns, another bone of contention was the payment of
basic salary as per the said CBA, and the implementation of the same in
accordance with a court order issued on October 28, 2021 but which went ignored. The sector stakeholders agreed to escalate the
matter and come to a final agreement on the modalities of paying the basic
salary by February 5, 2023. KMPDU was tasked with presenting to the
government a list of all county governments that do not have medical cover for
doctors to ensure the same is pursued and implemented.  “We believe that the 47 County governments and the MoH will
continue to implement other aspects of the 2017-2021 CBA as agreed as we
continue working together as social partners to ensure every Kenyan gets the
highest attainable quality health care in all healthcare facilities,” said
Dr. Atellah on Monday.