Korogocho Member of County Assembly
Absalom Odhiambo was on Monday arrested in Nairobi over comments during a rally
last week that were deemed inciteful. Odhiambo was arrested by officers
from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations, three days after the National Cohesion and Integration Commission (NCIC) summoned him. The officers apprehended him after he presented himself at
the NCIC headquarters at the Britam Towers in Nairobi’s Upper Hill area. The comments in question were made on Monday,
January 23, during an Azimio la Umoja One Kenya coalition party rally at the
Kamukunji Grounds. In a video clip of the event that was widely
circulated on the internet, the MCA is heard criticising the Kenya Kwanza
leadership while mobilising Azimio supporters for industrial action in the
capital. NCIC in a statement sent to newsrooms on
Friday took issue with the ODM politician’s remarks, saying they invoked ethnic
hatred. “Political development in the last few days is
creating unnecessary tension that if not well managed can plunge the country
into chaos,” the commission’s Chairperson, Rev Samuel Kobia, said. “A case in point is the utterances by
Korogocho Member of County Assembly Hon. Absalom Odhiambo Onyango at the Azimio
La Umoja Alliance rally at the Kamukunji grounds on Monday 23rd January 2022
which inter alia invoked ethnic hatred while inciting Kenyans to violence.
Therefore, we have summoned Hon. Absalom Odhiambo Onyango to record a
statement.” Dr Kobia further urged political leaders to
shun ethnic politics which may upset the current state of peace in the country
and cause division among political groups. “We
call upon all leaders to stop actions and rhetoric that can trigger violence.
For if unchecked violence started in one place will be repeated in another and
the whole country will burn before long. In such an event, nobody wins and all
of us lose.” The commission also called on Kenyans to accord the Head of State “respect and honour,” citing his role as a
symbol of national unity.  “We wish to remind Kenyans that the President
who is also Head of State is the symbol of national unity. Consequently, any
actions that undermine the presidency will not only damage the national
cohesion but will also injure peace and unity among Kenyans,” Kobia noted.