The government is now set to begin registering farmers countrywide for
easier distribution of subsidized fertilizer as well as to guide them on the development
of key agricultural policies. This comes after President William Ruto recently directed for the creation
of a digitized national register to weed out impostors and rogue traders who
have been exploiting farmers. Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Mithika Linturi on Wednesday said the database
will provide a managed access to government programs by farmers. The CS, who
spoke during the opening of a Training of Trainers (ToT) at the Kenya School
of Government in Lower Kabete,
added that the register will also ensure traceability,
accountability and transparency in implementation of the fertilizer subsidy
programmes. The trainers, comprising 188 Assistant County Commissioners, are
expected to train Chiefs and Assistant Chiefs to facilitate the exercise and ensure
uptake of the subsidized fertilizers before the onset of the 2023 long rains
season. "Previously, the government fertilizer subsidy programmes have
witnessed malpractices that included infiltration by non-beneficiaries and
unscrupulous traders who accessed and resold the subsidized fertilizers at
higher prices," noted the CS. "The government has committed to subsidize a total of 388,000MT of
various types of fertilizer for the 2023 long rains. This will ensure that the
targeted farmer beneficiaries access the fertilizers at subsidized
prices." Interior Principal Secretary Dr. Raymond Omollo, on his part,
underscored the utility of the ‘Whole of Government’ approach during the
registration drive, which will be launched soon after the conclusion of
training. "The National Government Administration has been embraced as the
grassroots structure to spearhead public education, awareness raising,
mobilization, identification and registration of farmers countrywide for
consideration in the distribution of the fertilizer,” said Dr. Omollo. "We must give all our support to this exercise, not only because it
is a government policy but also as a civic duty and responsibility to our
fellow citizens."  The PS however warned of decisive action against any government field
officer found misusing the free registration programme for personal gain.