Azimio La Umoja leader Raila Odinga wants President Ruto and
all leaders in the Kenya Kwanza government to resign. In a passionate speech on Monday at Nairobi’s Kamukunji
Gardens, Odinga maintained that the  August
2022 General Election was stolen in favour of Dr Ruto. He said the Kenya
Kwanza government does not have the mandate to rule and called it “illegitimate”. “We demand that the Kenya Kwanza government resigns since it
has neither the mandate nor the ability to govern the country,” said Odinga. While rallying his supporters to oppose the United Democratic
Alliance (UDA) party rule, the opposition leader said he and his supporters do not recognise Ruto as the
president of Kenya, alongside all officials in office with him. “We do not, and will not recognise the Kenya Kwanza regime
and we consider the Kenya Kwanza government illegitimate,” he said. The Azimio leader spoke to the recent dossier by a purported Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission
(IEBC) whistleblower claiming that Odinga won the August 9 election. IEBC Chairperson Wafula Chebukati, on August 15, 2022,
declared Ruto the president-elect after garnering 7,176,141 votes, representing
50.49 per cent of the total votes cast, while Odinga got 6,942,930 votes,
representing 48 per cent of the votes cast. The report however claims Odinga won the polls after
garnering 8,170,355 votes ahead of Ruto who reportedly managed 5,919,973 votes. According to Odinga, Chebukati, CEO Marjan Hussein and two
commissioners, Adi Guliye and Boya Molu, “formed a cartel within IEBC to cook their own
results”. He similarly faulted the Supreme Court for throwing out his petition
challenging Ruto’s win, saying the court was equally compromised by so-called
cartels. “We know what happened next at the Supreme Court. A
compromised court failed to declare the true victor, annul the elections or
order a rerun because of the glaring violations of the law and the constitution
by the IEBC,” said Odinga. “The Supreme Court itself was captured by cartels that had
also captured the IEBC. The two most critical institutions to elections in
Kenya were central to the rigging of the 2022 elections.” He issued a “non-negotiable” demand that the entire IEBC infrastructure and last year’s
election records to be audited by a forensic body. Odinga urged his supporters to also reject the “empty
promises” made by Ruto’s UDA regime, accusing the government of implementing “punitive
policies” to make life unbearable for Kenyans. “UDA is resorting to these policies because it was not ready
and it did not get any mandate to govern,” he said, citing the high cost of
living. “We call Kenyans to resist and demand removal of the punitive
taxes in unga, fuel, bus fare, paraffin, school fees, textbooks and
electricity.”  Odinga further promised to assemble another rally at the
Jacaranda Gardens in Nairobi, saying he has “a heavy heart and a lot of fear
for my country”.  