Embattled
Kenya African National Union (KANU) Party Secretary General Nick Salat has laid
bare alleged details behind wrangles with his party Chairman Gideon Moi that
led to his eventual suspension from the political outfit. This
after a letter from Moi on
December 15, 2022 noting that Salat was dismissed owing to claims of misconduct
and violation of the party's constitution. Mr.
Salat has now intimated that the genesis of the suspension came after a KANU
meeting held in Nakuru where he allegedly challenged the leadership structure
to resign following an underwhelming performance in the August 2022 polls. "We
took stock of our performance in the elections and I was asked what is
happening to us because our trajectory has been on the decline since 2013. A
party's strength is measured by the number of elected members it has,"
Salat told the Sunday Nation. "I
said in any functioning democracy, those in leadership including me and the Chairman,
should not be in the same position. We should resign and leave others to lead
the party." His
sentiments, Salat added, were unsettling to some of the party members but he
nonetheless drove his point home noting that the pertinent issues ailing the
party ought to be addressed. "People
were shocked because those questions have never been asked before. We have just
been sitting and praising the leadership. I said you cannot have a big name and
no results to show for it," he said. "I
asked the Chairman what he has done to ensure the success of the party." The
suspension, which has seen Salat barred from performing his duties as KANU
Secretary General, awaits a determination of the disciplinary committee which
has already been formed to hear his case and render its determination after one
month. Salat
affirmed that he will not shy away from the summons noting that it is crucial
for him to clear his name. The
outspoken politician says that he is ready for the interrogation "even if
I will not have a relationship with KANU." "Yes,
I will appear to clear my name. If I don't, it will appear that I'm running
away from accountability. I will face them and tell them the truth," he
noted. To
the reason behind KANU's dismal performance in the elections, Salat claimed
that the party was run like a one-man-show and he was barely offered a seat at
the deliberations table.