About one million children in the country are
at risk of malnutrition due to the ongoing drought. East Africa Community and ASALs Cabinet
Secretary Rebecca Miano says the government has rolled out interventions to
save the 960,000 children from the arid and semi arid regions who are currently
facing starvation. The CS on Wednesday said 9 counties are
currently in the alarm phase, with the inclusion of counties like Nyeri and some
parts of Kirinyaga joining the list of hunger stricken counties. It is the fifth consecutive failed rainy
season, one that has exacerbated the death of hundreds of livestock that many
pastoralist communities rely on to sustain their families. “The
priority interventions are informed by findings gathered by county steering
groups. The interventions include relief food, cash transfer, water trucking,
screening and treatment for malnutrition, provision of livestock feeds and off
take program,” said CS Miano. The drought situation remains critical in 22
of the 23 arid and semi arid areas, following the reduced rainfall recorded in the
short rainy season between October and December last year. According to data from the National Drought Management
Authority (NDMA), 9 counties including Kilifi, Mandera, Marsabit, Samburu,
Turkana, Wajir, Isiolo, Kitui and Kajiado are currently in the alarm drought
phase, while 13 others are in the alert phase. CS Miano says the government has rolled out
interventions to those affected, adding that the prolonged drought has also added
salt to injury by resulting in conflict among pastoralists who are fighting for
the scarce available resources. NDMA CEO Hared
Hassan said: “The government has spent Ksh.1.4 billion in terms of slaughter
where farmers sell their animals through KMC…we are trying to educate
pastoralists on the need to dispose their animals even as we give them drought
updates.” CS Miano added: “In
December 2022 alone, the Steering Committee distributed relief food to 14,300
households in 5 counties under Wakenya Tulindane initiative. Already,
resource-based conflicts have been noted in parts of Isiolo, Baringo , Laikipia.” The national and county governments, with the
support of development partners, are scaling up drought response
interventions to cushion lives and livelihoods of those affected.  According to government figures, over 4
million Kenyans are food insecure, with the number expected to go up due to the
just concluded short rain season that recorded reduced rainfall across the
country.