Education Cabinet Secretary Ezekiel Machogu
has mourned his predecessor, the late Prof. George Magoha, as a “consummate and
dedicated public servant.” CS Machogu, in a statement to newsrooms
following news of Magoha’s demise, termed the former CS as not only the man who
came before him in the ministry, but also as a personal friend. The CS said he looked up to Magoha for advice
on a variety of issues, adding that his contribution to the fields of both medicine
and education will forever be remembered long after he’s gone. “I have received the news of the untimely
death of Professor George Magoha with great shock and deep sadness. Professor
Magoha was not just my predecessor as Cabinet Secretary in the Ministry of
Education. He was also a friend and colleague that I have known for a long
time, and to whom I looked up to for advice,” he stated. “Professor Magoha's death has robbed the
nation of a consummate and dedicated public servant whose contributions in the
medical and education fields will remain indelible. In addition to his work in
the medical field as a urologist, Professor Magoha was also a respected
academic at various institutions of higher learning in Kenya and abroad.” The CS further stated that Magoha’s stints at
the University of Nairobi, as well as when he finally got into the national
government, beginning at the Kenya National Examinations Council (KNEC) before
rising to head the ministry, paint a rosy leadership career worth emulating. He termed the non-nonsense career surgeon’s
death as not only a blow to his family, but to the whole country at large. “As an administrator in the education sector,
he will be remembered for his transformational leadership at the University of
Nairobi where he served as Vice Chancellor for ten years from 2005 to 2015, and
at the Kenya National Examinations Council where he was Chairperson from 2016
to 2019,” added CS Machogu.  “As the Cabinet Secretary for Education,
Professor Magoha initiated landmark reforms in the education sector, key among
them the initiation of the Competency Based Curriculum. His death is not just a
deep loss to his family but also to the entire country. My thoughts and prayers
are with Professor Magoha's family during this difficult period.”