The late businessman Francis Kiambi’s Business Empire appeared to be
financially struggling at the time of his death. Close family members who are still struggling to come to terms with the
death of their loved ones while speaking to Citizen TV at the deceased rural
home in Tharaka say nonetheless the late Kiambi put up a spirited fight to not
only expand his business but also support Agricultural projects he initiated
among the Tharaka community, who hail him as a Hero. Grief and Sorrow engulf the home of the late
Francis Kiambi Kirori at his rural home in Nkarini, Tharaka. Late Kiambi’s mother Pricilla Siampui and
his sister Jesica Kajugu are for the 4th consecutive day struggling to come to
terms with the devastating news that befell them Monday morning at 9:30 am when
their beloved was confirmed dead by a family doctor from the nearby Karen
Hospital. Momentarily, the two speak in low tones, sharing
fond memories of their beloved son…as reality hits them that they’ll never
share the happy moments with him again. With the discussion of a Ksh. 2 billion loan application
at the centre of a five-hour-long deliberation just hours before the late
Kiambi was found dead at his home, the family of the late businessman has shared more
light on the Tycoon’s financial status. "Kulingana na vile tunajua, hapa mwisho
…biashara yake haikuwa Sawa sana. Hata kuna wale directors walikuja hapa
wakasema kwamba tangu serikali ianze kuweka sheria kali biashara haiendi sawa.
Sio vile ilikuwa mbeleni,” Jessica Kajugu said. According to a police report, the late
Kiambi’s wife Mary Waigwe Muthoni told detectives that she fell out with her
husband over her refusal to guarantee him a 2 billion shillings loan to start a
business. An incident that allegedly led to the couple sleeping in separate
bedrooms, on the eve of Kiambi’s death. According to Investigations, the alleged
planned bank transaction was the main discussion during a 5-hour deliberation
at the Big Smoke Bar and Restaurant joint, located a few kilometres from late
Kiambi’s home. “There was a bank Transaction discussion
involving the wife, lawyer and relative,” Lang’ata DCIO stated. Besides expanding his majorly alcoholic
brewery industry, Matanka, as he was popularly known at his rural home in
Tharaka, the local dialect name for watermelon and with time it became a
household name, uplifted the economic status of the Tharaka community by
introducing watermelon and sorghum farming which transformed the livelihoods of
locals. Late Kiambi distributed free seeds and sourced them for companies to buy the
product directly from the farms. “The Watermelon and Sorghum business
changed our fortunes…we were able to build stone houses and pay school fees,” Bernard
Murimi.  News of late Kiambi’s death continues to
shake the Tharaka community, who mourn their beloved son as Tharaka community
fallen hero.