Trade, Investment and Industry Cabinet
Secretary (CS) Moses Kuria has questioned the need to have compulsory school
uniforms in schools. Speaking in Nairobi on
Tuesday, the Trade CS opined that school uniforms have little to no effect on
learners receiving quality education and hence schools should not institute any type of clothing policy. "In America there is no
uniform. School uniform inakujia wapi katka mambo ya kusoma na CBC? It is not a
necessity," Kuria said in his briefing. Kuria made the utterances
moments after putting on notice schools selling uniforms within their
facilities. According to the CS, schools doing so are in breach of the law. "The Ministry has sent a circular and the
Ministry will send another circular today to the schools that parents have got
absolute freedom and discretion on where to buy uniforms," said Kuria. "We are mixing the issue
of education with school uniforms because a few people, who are pre-enjoying
this space of selling school uniforms, are colluding with schools. When you
hear that a school is selling uniforms ask them where their sewing machines and
tailors are." According to Kuria, Kenya's
manufacturing sector is missing out on numerous uniform-making opportunities since a number of schools are working in tandem with uniform-makers to sell their products exclusively within their facilities. "We've got 40,000 primary
and secondary schools in the country with a student population of close to
fourteen million. So this is a huge market and myself being the minister of
investments, trade and industry, I view this as customers," said Kuria. "This is one major
way to awaken our sleeping economy. Our schools are not going to be used as
conduits by those people who are used to having it very easy. It is better to
have more people at the bottom of the pyramid making uniforms than to have a
handful of people doing that business." The CS added that his Ministry
will send out trade officers, to various schools across the country, to ensure
that the institutions are conforming to his directive.  "Schools should not sell
uniforms. They are doing it illegally. I am sending out a team; we have trade
officers who will go school by school kumulika mwalimu," he said.