Donald Trump on
Wednesday called for far-right Republicans to end their blocking of the party's
candidate to become US House speaker, after a damaging split prevented Kevin
McCarthy from securing the key role. Congress was
thrown into disarray on Tuesday by the rebels' move to derail McCarthy's
candidacy, with the House of Representatives failing to elect a speaker for the
first time in a century. Rather than
celebrating their new control of the lower chamber, the Republican Party has
instead been pitched into a drawn-out public fight that put McCarthy's
political career on the line. "It's now
time for all of our great Republican House Members to vote for Kevin, close the
deal and take victory," Trump posted on social media. "Republicans,
do not turn a great triumph into a giant and embarrassing defeat." McCarthy needed
218 votes in the House, which flipped to a narrow 222-212 Republican majority
after last year's midterm elections. But he failed
to bring into line the party rebels, including several high-profile allies of
former president Trump, and he was rocked by 19 "no" votes from his
own side in each of the first two rounds, rising to 20 in the third. -
Trump loyalty test - The House was
adjourned on Tuesday and was expected to hold further ballots on Wednesday
until someone emerges with a majority -- and it is not out of the question that
a new candidate could come to the fore. One roadblock
to McCarthy's anointment was the perception by some on his party's right wing
that he is insufficiently loyal to Trump, who is running for the White House
again after losing to Joe Biden in 2020. McCarthy, who
defied a subpoena from the special House panel probing the 2021 assault by
Trump supporters on the Capitol, has already promised the hardliners
investigations of Biden's family and administration, as well as of the FBI and
CIA. But the more he
is seen as giving in to the right, the more likely he is to alienate moderates. His performance
was so weak that he lost out to the Democratic minority leader Hakeem Jeffries
in each of the opening three ballots -- although there remains little doubt a
Republican will ultimately claim the speaker's gavel. The last time
it took more than one round of voting to pick a speaker at the start of a new
Congress was a century ago, in 1923. Another historic speaker selection process
that began in December 1855 took 133 rounds of voting over two months. "It's time
to celebrate, you deserve it," Trump said. "Kevin McCarthy will do a
good job, and maybe even a great job -- just watch!"  The Speaker
wields huge influence in Washington by presiding over House business and is
second in line to the presidency, after the vice president.