At least six people were injured in an attack at Paris’ Gare Du Nord
train station early Wednesday, restricting access to one of the French
capital’s major rail hubs. An individual began attacking people at 6:42 a.m. local time and was
neutralized a minute later, according to French Interior Minister Gerald
Darmanin. The individual was disarmed by off-duty police officers who were
going home and by border police, Darmanin said in a press conference. The attacker made the weapon himself, Darmanin added. Paris police had
earlier said the individual started attacking people with a knife at 6:45 a.m.
local time. Several police officers opened fire, including a security agent working
for rail operator SNCF, police said. Multiple shots were fired and the alleged
attacker was injured. A spokesman for the Paris Prosecutor’s Office said six people were
injured, including a member of the French border police. One of the injured is
in critical condition. The suspect is also in critical condition, the
spokesman said.  The motive for the knife attack is unknown, according to the Paris
Prosecutor’s Office. The French national Anti-Terrorism Prosecutor’s Office said it is
“evaluating the facts” about the attack, but has not yet taken the case. The
fact that the suspected attacker was injured may lengthen the time it will take
to evaluate the facts about the case, the office added. Darmanin arrived at Gare du Nord soon after the attack Wednesday morning.
Earlier, he wrote on Twitter that the alleged attacker had injured several
people before being “quickly neutralized.” “Thankful to the police for their effective and courageous response,”
Darmanin tweeted. CNN affiliate BFMTV
interviewed one woman, identified only as Lili, who witnessed the attack and
helped injured victims. “My friends and I were
going on holiday this morning and we were at the entrance of the station when
we heard people yelling,” she said. “We saw two people on
the ground. One was hitting the other. People tried to pull them apart and
that’s when the attacker pulled out his weapon. People started yelling ‘knife!’
and began running away. I helped the first victim who had been attacked and I
got the impression that the individual was attacking all the people who tried
to get near him and overpower him." “I helped the injured
person who had been attacked and was in a state of shock. I brought them to the
police and I then tried to find my friends and that’s when we heard the
gunshots. The armed forces responded very quickly to the attack. It didn’t even
last five minutes even though it felt like an eternity to me. “We are all shocked by
what we saw. We were two meters away. It could have been one of us because we
were so close. It’s very traumatic.” A few hundred people
coalesced in the main concourse of the Gare Du Nord station, many looking for
information about trains following the attack, according to CNN’s team at the
station. Several dozen police
officers were posted around a security perimeter that blocked off a large
portion of the station’s main concourse, blocking access to several intercity
train platforms, according to CNN’s team. Access to the Eurostar terminal has
since reopened after it was cut off for several hours. Police screens hid the
scene of the attack from view but police officers could be seen collecting
evidence in paper bags. While residents of
Paris had begun to relax after several years of heightened tensions around
terror attacks, Wednesday’s incident, which currently is not being investigated
as terror-related by French authorities, is the second in two months. In
December, a man who was being investigated at the time by Paris’ Prosecutor’s
Office for racist violence shot and killed three Kurdish activists in
the north of Paris. Even so, the
atmosphere at Gare du Nord was calm Wednesday around lunchtime and passengers
seemed hopeful of being able to catch their trains. 