Lawyer Danstan Omari, the legal representative for former Interior
Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i has given an account of what allegedly
transpired when a multi-agency security team raided the ex-minister's Karen
home on Wednesday afternoon. Speaking to Citizen TV just moments after the police officers drawn from
different units left the scene, Omari noted that he made his way to the
premises after receiving word that the officers had laid siege to Matiang'i's
home. When he arrived on the scene, Omari says that he found the former
security minister's main gate broken and the home ransacked by the police
officers who were allegedly looking for CCTV footage of an earlier incident at the premises. Omari requested the officers to present him with a court order which
sanctioned the operation but they did not oblige to his request. "We asked the police to present a court order and we told them they
cannot continue doing any other thing until they submitted it but the
officer-in-charge could not produce it. They then hurriedly gave instructions
to vacate the premises and that is why you saw them leaving hastily when you
arrived," Omari told Citizen TV 's Seth Olale. According to Omari, police also temporarily detained Matiang'i's
watchman when he denied them access to the premises. "They arrested the watchman when he tried to raise alarm that they
cannot enter without a court order. So they arrested him and that's when they
broke into the house," said Omari. The watchman, only identified as Edgar, says that the supposed officers
remained mum during most of the incident only asking whether Matiang'i was
inside the premises as they attempted to break the main gate using one of their
vehicles. "They came and they asked me to open the gate but I declined. They
then broke in and then threw me inside the boot of a car. They kept me there for
like an hour but then they released me. They did not say much. One of them
asked if the owner of the house was in and I said he wasn't," said Edgar. Omari has termed the raid as illegal since the court declined to issue
orders allowing police to raid the home. "They first went to Milimani courts and they were never given the
order. Yesterday, they were in Kiambu over the same but they were not given the
order. Today they were in Milimani clandestinely but they were not given the
order," said Omari. "Out of frustration, they drive here in a military form, break the
door without a court order, get into the house and ransack it. I will not allow
you to go inside because of Matiang'i's privacy but all the doors in his house
have been broken," he added. Omari, while stating that he knows some of the officers who raided
Matiangi's home by name, similarly slammed the police for not according
Matiang'i the respect he deserves as a former Interior Minister. "Matiang'i is a man who believes in the rule of law; he will comply
with any lawful order but there is no lawful order for his house to be broken
into. They are treating the former CS as if he is a fugitive or petty
offender," said Omari. Citizen Digital has
since established that detectives from the Directorate of Criminal
Investigations (DCI) who raided Matiang’i’s Karen home on Wednesday evening were
seeking to obtain CCTV footage of the residence.  The detectives, it may
seem, were successful in their mission, as sources at the investigative agency
intimate that they not only obtained the footage but also confiscated the
computer in which it was backed up as well.