The
Anglican Church of Kenya (ACK) on Sunday made its objection to a decision by the
Church of England allowing priests to preside over same-sex couples known to
its congregation. In
the letter from the archbishop Jackson Ole Sapit to the Church of England,
which was read at the All Saint's Cathedral by the Reverend Canon Sammy Wainina,
the Kenyan church made it clear that it will not follow in the steps of its
mother church in England. It
termed the decision as a departure from true biblical doctrine. “Having
lost all theological and doctrinal legitimacy, the liberal churches are using
their political dominance to secularise the church by normalising all manner of
sin,” read the letter. The
Kenyan church maintained that the decision by the Church of England cannot
force them to follow a doctrine they do not subscribe to. “The
general synod of the Church of England makes legislation for the Church of
England and their resolutions apply only to the Church of England,” the ACK
said. The
Kenyan clergy told their congregants that they will not subscribe to the
decision to bless same-sex unions as they do not recognise them. “We
do not recognise any teachings that are extra biblical or contrary to the teachings
of the bible, his grace affirms that marriage is a union between a man and a
woman, monogamous and heterosexual.” However,
the Kenyan church acknowledges that same sex relationships are an issue that
needs addressing even in the Kenya society. “It
is becoming acceptable for male to be in love with males and vice versa, and so
the problem must also be addressed right here, but let it be addressed by the
Kenyan church addressing it to their context,” the Archbishop said. The
Kenyan Church maintained that there are greater issues in the Kenyans society
that need prioritisation and that will be its focus.  “Problems
of teen pregnancies, problems of unfaithfulness in marriages, problems of corruption
that is affecting even the church, you realise the English problem is their problem,
we have our own problem,” the church said.