The late no-nonsense former Education Cabinet
Secretary Prof. George Magoha has finally been laid to rest at his rural home
in Umiru village, Gem – Yala, in Siaya County. During his funeral service that was held at Maseno
University’s Odera Akang’o campus in Yala town and attended by several
dignitaries led by former President Uhuru Kenyatta and Azimio la Umoja One
Kenya coalition party leader Raila Odinga, speakers - one after the other - eulogized
Prof. Magoha as an astute academician whose contribution in the education
sector will be indelible. President William Ruto, in his condolence
message that was read by ICT Cabinet secretary Eliud Owalo, his predecessor Kenyatta
and Mr. Odinga acknowledged the contributions Prof. Magoha made in the
transformation of the country’s education sector. "Prof. Magoha loved doing his work. He had no half
measures. He put his whole heart and being into everything that he did and he
believed in whatever he did. If he did not believe in it he did not even begin
doing it," said President Ruto. Former President Kenyatta stated: "If truly what everybody has said here is what
they mean about what a great giant lies before us today, then implement what he
started and let this country benefit from what he worked so hard to achieve. Less
politics and more work...that is who Magoha was and that is what we shall
remember about him." Mr. Odinga, on his part, stated: "Magoha excelled academically and humility was his way of life. He
recognised everybody. Some people say that Magoha was arrogant I say no. Magoha
was just straight-talking person and people sometimes don't like to hear the
truth." On their part, family and relatives of Prof. Magoha
- led by his wife Dr. Barbara Odudu Magoha - eulogized him as a jovial, loving
and caring patriarch who gave hope to the hopeless. Dr. Odudu also took the opportunity to apologize to the Luo community for failing to abide by some of the customary requirements
when she brought the body of her husband home, noting that she had to do it the
Nigerian way. “I want to apologize for yesterday, there are
people who don't understand that Luo culture where people mourn at the home…
Some cultures are good and others we have to give up,” she said. “People were upset that I didn't wail to enter the
home, my new position in the family doesn't give me the privilege to display
emotions in public. I mourned my husband the Nigerian way.” Prof. Magoha’s son – Dr. Michael Magoha - stated
that his father believed in empowering people by giving everybody an equal
chance to do whatever they could to the best of their ability, and therefore
challenged Kenyans to emulate him going forward.  Just when the speeches were going on, Education Cabinet
Secretary Ezekiel Machogu was forced to cut short his speech Mr. Odinga arrived
in traditional regalia while chanting dirges in honour of the late professor,
bringing the ceremony to a standstill for close to 15 minutes.