Pokot North MP David Pkosing has been ordered to report back
at the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) headquarters by 4 pm on
Friday. Pkosing was arrested on Thursday at KICC on
allegations of funding banditry in Northern Kenya by posting bail for seven suspected Pokot bandits
and also ferrying them using a helicopter from Kitale Law Courts to Pokot and was grilled by the DCI for five hours. Addressing the press at around 10.30 pm shortly after his release,
Pkosing denied the allegations levelled against him claiming the 7 were actually the
owners of over 200 heads of cattle that had just been killed by bandits and
were arrested while checking on their cows. Even though he denied ever meeting the said bandits, he
acknowledged having posted their bond upon their release by the court, saying the boys came from his community and he felt that they had been wrongly arrested in the
first place. “Nashangaa sana ya kwamba mimi nashikwa kwa sababu naambiwa
ati nilishikia watoto bond ambao walikuwa kutoka Masol, Pokot, na wamecondemn
hao ya kwamba ni criminals, na kwa hivyo hawakutaka wapewe bond. Mimi ata sijui
majina yao, sijawai kukutana nao. What I know is that they’re innocent boys,
and that is why the court had seen it fit to release them on bond,” he said. “Mimi ni mtu wa amani, I was in the peace and justice
commission before I became an MP, kila mtu anajua hivyo, na mimi sijawai andika
statement ya police anywhere in my life.” The MP and his lawyer Danstan Omari went ahead to allege
that Pkosing had been forewarned of his arrest by a high-ranking government official,
at the level of a Cabinet Secretary, whom he vowed to name when he returns to
the DCI headquarters. “Na mimi nafikiri kuna watu wanaskuma hii maneno, kuna mtu
alinipigia simu jana na akaniambia Pkosing utaona. Na mimi ntakuja hapa kesho I
will name that person.”  Omari added: “The issue in this matter is that Mheshimiwa
was warned by a Cabinet Secretary that he will be arrested; that is not the
way, because the CS has no mandate at all to arrest. Article 244/245 gives the
Inspector General of Police absolute power to arrest; he only takes direction
pursuant to Article 157 from the Director of Public Prosecutions. That is why
Mheshimiwa’s arrest was a political witch-hunt.”