Hopes faded Thursday of finding
more survivors after the earthquake that killed nearly 20,000 people in Turkey
and Syria, as the first UN aid reached Syrian rebel-held zones. Bitter cold has hampered the
four-day search of thousands of flattened buildings and threatened the lives of
many quake victims who are without shelter and drinking water. Relatives were left scouring body
bags laid out in a hospital car park in Turkey's southern city of Antakya to
search for missing relatives, an indication of the scale of the tragedy. "We found my aunt, but not
my uncle," said Rania Zaboubi, a Syrian refugee who lost eight members of
her family as other survivors sought loved ones' bodies. Chances of finding survivors have
dimmed now that the 72-hour mark that experts consider the most likely period
to save lives has passed. The 7.8-magnitude quake struck as
people slept early Monday in a region where many people had already suffered
loss and displacement due to Syria's civil war. But in a potentially life-saving
development, an aid convoy reached rebel-held northwestern Syria on Thursday,
the first since the quake, an official at the Bab al-Hawa border crossing told
AFP. The aid passage through the
crossing is the only way UN assistance can reach civilians without going
through areas controlled by Syrian government forces. A decade of civil war and
Syrian-Russian aerial bombardment had already destroyed hospitals, collapsed
the economy and prompted electricity, fuel and water shortages. Temperatures in the Turkish city
of Gaziantep plunged to minus five degrees Celsius (23 degrees Fahrenheit)
early Thursday, but thousands of families spent the night in cars and makeshift
tents -- too scared or banned from returning to their homes. Parents walked the streets of the
city -- close to the epicentre of Monday's earthquake -- carrying their
children in blankets because it was warmer than sitting in a tent. Some people have found sanctuary
with neighbours or relatives. Some have left the region. But many have nowhere
to go. Gyms, mosques, schools and some
stores have opened at night. But beds are still at a premium and thousands
spend the nights in cars with engines running to provide heat. "When we sit down, it is
painful and I fear for anyone who is trapped under the rubble in this,"
said Melek Halici, who wrapped her two-year-old daughter in a blanket as they
watched rescuers working into the night. International rescuers have said
the intense cold has forced them to weigh whether to use their limited fuel
supplies to keep warm or to carry out their work. "Not a single person has
failed to mention this, the cold," Athanassios Balafas, a Greek fire
official, said in Athens. "Obviously we chose to keep operating." Turkish President Recep Tayyip
Erdogan, after mounting criticism online, acknowledged on Wednesday "there
are shortcomings. The conditions are clear to see. It's not possible to be
ready for a disaster like this." Monday's quake was the largest
Turkey has seen since 1939, when 33,000 people died in the eastern Erzincan
province. Officials and medics said 16,546
people had died in Turkey and 3,317 in Syria from Monday's 7.8-magnitude tremor,
bringing the confirmed total to 19,863. Experts fear the number will continue
to rise sharply. Despite the dimming hopes for
rescues, thousands of local and foreign searchers have not given up in the hunt
for more survivors. Two dozen children and some of
their parents from northern Cyprus -- 39 Turkish Cypriots in all -- were on a
school trip to join a volleyball tournament when the quake hit their hotel in
southeast Turkey's Adiyaman. Their home region's government
has declared a national mobilisation, hiring a private plane so they could join
the search-and-rescue effort for the children. Ilhami Bilgen, whose brother
Hasan was on the volleyball team, looked at the frightening pile of concrete
slabs and heavy bricks that used to be the hotel. "There's a hollow over
there. The children may have crawled into it," Bilgen said. "We still
haven't given up hope." Dozens of nations, including
China and the United States have pledged to help, and search teams as well as
relief supplies have already arrived. In Brussels, the EU is planning a
donor conference in March to mobilise international aid for Syria and Turkey. The European Union said the
conference would be held in coordination with Turkish authorities "to
mobilise funds from the international community in support for the people"
of both countries. The bloc was swift to dispatch
rescue teams to Turkey after the massive 7.8-magnitude earthquake struck the
country on Monday close to the border with Syria. But it initially offered only
minimal assistance to Syria through existing humanitarian programmes because of
EU sanctions imposed since 2011 on the government of President Bashar al-Assad
in response to his brutal crackdown on protesters, which spiralled into a civil
war.  In addition to a staggering human
toll, the quake's economic cost appears likely to exceed $2 billion and could
reach $4 billion or more, Fitch Ratings said.