The Federation of Kenya Employers (FKE) has
finally give its members the go ahead to implement the new NSSF deductions
after a consensus between them and the State agency’s board of trustees
following the Court of Appeal judgment on February 3, 2023. FKE, which was seemingly hesitant on the
implementation process and time, has now written an advisory to its members to
effect the changes starting with the February 2023 payroll. The federation, in an advisory to employers
on a letter dated February 9, said: “Following the decision of the Court of Appeal
on NSSF Act 2013, the NSSF has commenced the immediate implementation of the
act and released public announcements on the process and rates applicable for
both tier 1 and tier II contributions.” The employers were advised to deduct and
remit the said monthly contribution to the fund by 9th day of every month. According to the NSSF Act 2013, an employee
is expected to contribute 6 per cent of their salaries to the NSSF, another six
per cent to be matched by their employer. An employee in tier 1 earning Ksh.6,000 per
month should be deducted Ksh.360 per month, and their employer to pay a similar
amount making it a total of Ksh.720. An employee in tier II who is earning Ksh.18,000
and above per month becomes the upper limit of contributions, paying Ksh.1,080,
their employer should match up a similar amount to give a total of Ksh.2,160. This is up from a flat rate of Ksh.200 that
all the employees have been paying. The Central Organization of Trade Union (COTU)
has welcomed the decision by NSSF board of trustees to effect the new law,
saying social security is a human right that focuses on addressing the
universal need for protection against certain life risks and social needs. According to COTU Secretary General Francis
Atwoli, many workers have been contributing to and receiving funds from the
provident fund which is a lump sum payment for tier 1, leaving them exposed to
old age poverty with no social security covering them. According to Atwoli, Kenyan workers will be
contributing to and receiving funds from the pension fund under NSSF which is a
combination of both provident fund tier 1 and the pension fund tier II.  An employer may opt out of tier II for a better
scheme but according to Atwoli, over and above the lump sum payment received at
ago after retirement from NSSF, Kenyan workers will be entitled to monthly
benefits as they would have respectively contributed under tier II.