 Senator Cheragei claims that he, too, was a victim of the unjust methods used by police to apprehend individuals. He spoke in the backdrop of a police raid at former Minister Fred Matiangi's home. Speaking on Citizen TV's Daybreak show on Thursday, Cherargei said  police officers stormed into his house and "found him naked,"  before bundling him into a police car. "I was arrested naked in my bed in April 21, 2022, sick. A number of police walked to my bed at my residence and drove me for five/six hours to Nairobi and dumped me at Capital Hill police station. I went to court and an order was given that I be taken to hospital because I had food poisoning, he narrated. "I was taken to Gigiri police station and a phone call came from former IG Hillary Mutyambai and Matiang'i that the OCS should ignore the court order and I stayed there up to Monday when the magistrate supervised that I go for checkup," he added. "I am still traumatized up to today. Imagine the embarrassment that a police officer walked to your bed when naked. I felt so indignified and so bad and you know I was a leader. We even need counseling so that we can recover from those traumas." The Nandi Senator now says that the shoe is on the other foot and those castigating the police should let them do their job. According to Senator Cherargei, Matiang'i once stated that launching a manhunt on an individual is not wrong. "I don't think this is political persecution it is the same Fred Matiang'i who once told us that when the police are looking for you if you have not committed an offence then there's no problem. This is a culture we have built over the years," he said. "And why would he (Matiang'i) refuse to release CCTV footage? It is because there was no police raid as alleged by him and that is why the police wanted to retrieve to reveal the truth. Let the police do their job." This comes after a contingent of police officers raided the ex-minister's Karen home on Wednesday afternoon, seeking to obtain CCTV footage to the residence. The sleuths, who however made no arrests at the home, are then said to have driven to the DCI headquarters on Kiambu Road in two vehicles. The Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) boss Mohamed Amin, in a subsequent statement to newsrooms, intimated that they obtained the court order before making the raid, Matiang’i’s lawyers report the contrary. Amin added that upon obtaining and examining the footage, action would be taken against any officer found to have been involved in last week's alleged raid, which he termed as a  “well-coordinated and deliberate attempt to spread false information and incite public fear.”