Herders in Masol
area of West Pokot County have accused the police of felling 119 heads of
cattle. The herders say
they lost their animals to police bullets shortly after leaving the grazing
fields of Masol. The herders
suspect that the police thought the herd was made up of livestock stolen by
bandits, but it does little to take away the pain and sense of loss. The herders claim
that on Friday afternoon en route to Masol from the grazing fields in
Kadeng’oi, police officers descended on the livestock by spraying bullets in
broad daylight. “Ng’ombe zilikuwa
zinatoka malisho kurudi nyumbani na ilikuwa asubuhi saa sita,” Wilson Chekaruk,
a Masol resident, said. Peter Loriwo, a
herder who is trying to save his cattle but they are all too weak to even stand
or walk, says he is counting losses worth millions of shillings. “Sasa penye
walifika tu hapa hao maaskari wakashuka na wakaanza kushoot ng’ombe za watu
hawa hawaelewi nini ndio ilifanyika,” Loriwo stated. John Domoreng,
another herder added: “Sisi tumepata hasara kabisa kwa sababu hii ng’ombe ndio
tunategemea.” The herders want
the Ministry of Interior to investigate the case and loop in the Independent
Policing Oversight Authority (IPOA) to ensure the culprits are brought to book.
Area leaders also condemned the incident “Labda umepiga ng’ombe
ya mtu ambaye hana hatia, alikuwa anachunga ng’ombe yake, katika enzi ya sasa
collective punishment haiko katika dunia hii,” West Pokot Governor Simon
Kachapin said. Sigor MP Peter
Lochakapong added: “Tuna huzuni kubwa kwa sababu hatujawahi kuona wakati
mwengine tangu tukuwe wakati ambapo serikali imetumia bunduki kuuwa ng’ombe ya
watu bila hatia yoyote.” “The government is
supposed to protect its own people and their property but killed those animals.
The Pokot have suffered close to between Ksh.10 million to Ksh.15 million,”
Pokot South MP David Pkosing chimed in.  Turkana South Ssub-county
Police Commander William Adenyo says investigations have since been launched into
the incident.