President William
Ruto has appointed the selection panel for the
recruitment of the nominees for appointment as the Chairperson and members of
the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC). Through a Gazette Notice dated
February 27, 2023, Ruto appointed a seven-member selection panel, two
weeks after he declared vacancies at the electoral body, paving the way for the
recruitment of new commissioners. The Head of State picked Bethuel
Sugut, Novince Euralia Atieno, Charity S. Kisotu, Evans Misati James, Benson
Ngugi Njeri, Nelson Makanda and Fatuma Saman to lead the exercise. “In exercise of the powers conferred
by section 7A of the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission Act, 2011
(the Act), as read with Paragraph 1 (2) of the First Schedule to the Act, I,
William Samoei Ruto, President and Commander-in-Chief of the Kenya Defence
Forces appoint… to be members of the Selection Panel for the Recruitment of
Nominees for Appointment as the Chairperson and Members of the Independent
Electoral and Boundaries Commission,” Ruto said. Last month, the head of state signed the IEBC (Amendment) Bill 2022 into law setting
the stage for the formation of the seven-member selection panel to recruit the
new commissioners. The Selection Panel was now required to have representatives
of the Parliamentary Service Commission, the Public Service Commission (PSC),
the Political Parties Liaison Committee (PPLC), the Law Society of Kenya (LSK),
and the Inter-Religious Council of Kenya. The Bill passed saw the Parliamentary Service
Commission and the Inter-religious Council of Kenya allocated two members (a
man and a woman) each while the PSC, PPLC and LSK had one member nominated to
the panel. Monday’s appointment came hours after the
tribunal formed to consider the petition for removal of Juliana Cherera,
Francis Wanderi, Irene Masit and Justus Nyang’aya from office as members of the
Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) tabled its report
to the president. The Justice Aggrey Mucheule-led tribunal noted that the
concerns of serious violations of the Constitution during electoral period
against the four commissioners had been proven. Cherera – the former IEBC Vice-chair –
together with Wanderi, Masit and Nyang’aya disputed the presidential
election results declared by the IEBC Chairperson Wafula Chebukati on August
15, citing “opaqueness” in the manner they were arrived at. After the Supreme Court later upheld the
elections, petitions were filed challenging their suitability to hold office. And although the probe was initially
targeting all four commissioners now labelled the ‘Cherera four’, Masit’s
colleagues all resigned before the hearings started, leaving her to
face the tribunal. According to the Mucheule-led panel, Masit,
who has been suspended from the commission pending determination of the
petitions, agreed to a proposal by Raila Odinga’s Azimio La Umoja-One Kenya
coalition agents to moderate the presidential election results and force a re-run. “The Commissioner agreed with the request by
the delegation that they needed to interfere with the result by either
declaring Baba as the winner or in the alternative they be moderated to allow
for a rerun. They threatened that if that was not done the country would be
plunged into chaos,” read the report.  “The actions by Commissioner Irene Masit
clearly show that she was amenable to improper influence and that she could not
be trusted to be an impartial and neutral arbiter. Once again, she was guilty of
gross misconduct,” the tribunal added.