Immigration and Citizen Services Principal Secretary (PS)
Prof Julius Bitok says the soon-to-be-unveiled Unique Personal Identifier (UPI) will replace traditional
forms of documentation and registrations. Addressing a workshop on UPI rollout for regional and county
Civil Registration officers at the Kenya School of Government on Wednesday, PS Bitok said in
addition to its co-purpose of being issued to newborns and serving as the death
certificate number, UPI would be adopted by National registration bodies. He said that bodies dealing with a population such as Census, Identity Cards (IDs), the Kenya Revenue Authority, and Health Insurance
among others will use the UPI. “In many countries which are advanced, you don’t need a 10-year census where people are counted at night. What we’re launching
is foundational to ensure that in future, we have accurate data about our
population,” he said. “That number will be used subsequently in life. The UPI will
be used in school and later in life to be the ID number when they get 18 years
old. They’ll use that number as the KRA number, as the NHIF, NSSF…etc. It’ll be
a number for everything that a citizen will need.” According to the PS, after its launch next month, UPI will substitute the current Birth
Entrance Number (BEN) as the primary identification reference for its holders
with the number expected to be used in learning institutions as the student
number. Upon attainment of
18 years, UPI will graduate into the national ID thereby negating the need for
registration by the National Registration Bureau as is the current practice. The PS referred to the recent pledge by President William
Ruto that seeks to digitise over 5000 government services in the e-Citizen platform adding that the Kenya Kwanza administration hopes
to attain 100 per cent registrations of births with the introduction of the new system. Similarly, he said the number of registered deaths will
increase significantly from the current 56 per cent with the benefit of easy access
to digital death certificates. Bitok notes that 14 out of every 100 births go unregistered in the
country with the majority of them being from among the 30 per cent of countrywide
deliveries that occur at home or in other places besides maternity
institutions. On Monday, he said a successful rollout of the UPI
could effectively negate the need for vetting of communities living close to
international boundaries as a prerequisite to issuing them with IDs, passports
and other identification documents. “On the introduction of UPI, we shall be able to do away
with vetting because everything will be digital. The database from NRB or IPRS
will be accessible such that if we need the details of the parent, we are able to
confirm digitally that a person is a Kenya or not,” the PS said.  He also touted UPI as a game changer in enhancing the
collection of revenue and as a critical player in the
consolidation and integration of data.