Embattled Pokot South Member of Parliament David
Pkosing, who has over the past week had run-ins with the Directorate of
Criminal Investigations (DCI) over banditry allegations, has been denied
anticipatory bail. Pkosing, through lawyer Danstan Omari, had on Friday last week moved to court seeking orders to stop his alleged imminent arrest pending the
hearing of his application. He named the DCI, Inspector General of
Police, as well as the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) in the application
filed at the Milimani Law Court before Lady Justice Diana Mochache. The third-term MP, in the application, said
he was on Thursday last week at around 5:30pm arrested while leaving his office
and whisked to the DCI headquarters on Kiambu Road where he was interrogated
for hours and only released at 11:30pm. Pkosing said that the subject of his then arrest
and subsequent interrogation was an allegation of funding banditry in the
North Rift, a claim he terms as “farfetched and baseless.” The lawmaker went ahead to state that – upon his
release - he was directed to present himself back to the DCI headquarters the
following day at 8am, which he did, only to be turned away and told to return the same day at 4:30pm to respond to claims of money laundering. “...the Applicant has never received any
other summons requiring him to attend to any police station or investigative agency.
He is thus apprehensive that the intent of requiring him to attend the DCI
offices at 4.30PM on a Friday is to lock him up till Monday next week
arbitrarily,” stated lawyer Omari in court papers. “Further, the news of his imminent arrest was
widely circulated and reported by various media houses and on social media
platforms and he is apprehensive that the Kenya Police will raid his home and
arrest him.” Omari added: “The 2nd Respondent (Inspector
General of Police) has already demonstrated malicious intent and a clear
disregard for the rule of law by abusing due process as evidenced by the
unwarranted arrest and speedy transfer to DCI HQ offices without availing him
an opportunity to appear before the said offices on his own.” Pkosing, in his supporting affidavit, attributed
his woes to his political leaning, stating that he contested and won his seat
on KUP Party which is under the opposition Azimio la Umoja One Kenya coalition
umbrella. “...moreover, I am being persecuted merely
because I offered to bail out 7 youthful men from Kitale Law Court who were
arraigned on the 6/02/2023 in Kitale Misc Criminal Case No. E023 OF 2023,” he
stated in the court documents. “Further to add, I stepped in to bail out the
said Respondents for the simple reason that they come from Pokot South
Constituency, which Constituency I represent at the National Assembly.” The application was filed on February 17 and
certified as urgent on February 21 by Justice Mochache, who went on to urge the
legislator to serve the respondents by the afternoon of February 22, 2023.  The Lady Justice further set the hearing of
the application on February 23, 2023 at 3pm.