The Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology
(JKUAT) has received a grant of €950, 646 (approximately over Ksh.127 million) to advance
its snail breeding value chain research. The Nurture Conservation research grant, according
to a statement from the university’s Corporate Communications office, was
issued by the Cherasco Worldwide Institute of Snail Breeding. JKUAT represented Kenya in a round of funding that spanned
over three rounds, and involved over ten countries, thereby beating out the
likes of Nigeria, Ghana and Cameroon to emerge top and receive the grant. “The
snail breeding value chain project in JKUAT has been focusing on value
addition, coming up with an array of products ranging from delicious snail
meat, skincare products, organic fertilizers, and animal feeds,” read the
statement from the institution. “The
new frontier of the research will focus on tapping the medicinal value of
snails, looking into generating a cough syrup from snail slime. This, the
researchers believe, will be a groundbreaking solution and a game-changer to
persistent coughs, especially among children under the age of five.” Dr. Paul Kinoti, JKUAT’s snail breeding value chain research
Principal Investigator, expressed his gratitude to the Cherasco Worldwide
Institute of Snail Breeding for the funding, further adding that the “novelty
of the innovation” by his team played a major role in swaying the grant their way. “We are excited that the efforts we’ve made over the years
have not been in vain and have been validated. We started small, and now we are
going to impact lives. I am very grateful for the enabling research environment
in JKUAT, and to all our partners and funding organization,” he said. “This will help create a sustainable supply of the highly
sought-after snail in the African and European market. Kenya’s climate is one
of the best for snail breeding, and is also the natural habitat of the giant
African land snail.” JKUAT Vice Chancellor, Prof. Victoria Wambui Ngumi,on
her part, noted that not only does the snail breeding research plug into the
university’s core focus of innovation and technology, but also supports the
national government’s development agenda. “The business of snail farming requires low capital
investment and is highly profitable. The global snail industry is currently
valued at 2 billion dollars, which I believe Kenya can emphatically tap into,” stated
Prof. Ngumi.  “With this, we’re looking at a considerable impact on food
security, entrepreneurship through agri-business, climate change mitigation,
and achieving Universal Health Coverage.”