Azimio la Umoja One Kenya coalition Senators
are now threatening to impeach Senate Speaker Amason Kingi for allegedly
frustrating leadership changes being effected by the party. The Senators on Thursday caused drama in the
House as they accused Speaker Kingi of favouritism and demanded that he
communicates the leadership changes. Deputy Speaker Kathuri Murungi, who chaired
the session, was forced to throw out Minority Leader Stewart Madzayo and Narok
Senator Ledama ole Kina from the chambers after they failed to heed to his
orders. The changes Azimio had made to the minority
leadership included ousting Fatuma Dullo from her position as Minority Whip and
replacing her with Ole Kina, with Nairobi Senator Edwin Sifuna set to deputise him. “If this
communication is brought to me or any other speaker, then he or she must
communicate...but as I sit here, there is no communication,” stated Deputy
Speaker Murungi. Kilifi Senator Madzayo,
who is the Minority Leader, said: “You (Murungi) are so inclined on one side
and not looking on the other, you are supposed to be blind on that chair. I beseech
you, don’t destroy the Senate. His Homa Bay
counterpart Moses Kajwang stated: “Mr. Speaker I want to urge you not to be
dragged to be part of political party or coalition intrigues. I want to urge
you to allow the majority and minority to be led by those they want.” Fatuma Dullo, who is on the chopping board,
sat quietly on the minority bench watching as Senators faced off; the Isiolo
legislator is being reprimanded for getting cosy with the majority side. When the Senators became unruly, they were
kicked out of the chamber, prompting all the Azimio-leaning legislators to
stage a walk out. Addressing journalists after storming out of
the chambers, the Senators turned on Speaker Kingi, accusing him of being
partisan. “For the first time we’re seeing the raping
of the standing orders, we’re a House that is totally being disorganized by the
Speaker,” said Madzayo. Ole Kina stated: “We’re
seeing an incompetent Speaker, so this House has got no choice but to begin the
process of removing the Speaker.” Siaya Senator Oburu
Oginga, on his part, added: “These are intrigues coming from State House, and
we know their aim is to kill the opposition.”  The Senators further threatened to publish
what they said was damaging information about the Speaker, as the standoff is expected
to continue next week.