The family of a South Sudanese
political and human rights activist, who has been living in Kenya for the last
two years, is in distress after their kin was arrested on Saturday last week by
unknown people and taken to an undisclosed location. Morris Mabior Awikjok, who was
seeking asylum in Kenya following a fallout with some government officials back
in South Sudan, was taken by armed people believed to be police officers from
his Kangundo Road house in Nairobi. Angelina Aliet, the wife of
the missing activist, claims that five men and a woman trailed her husband from a nearby shop to the house and
demanded that she opens the door. According to Aliet, the armed
men, who came in two vehicles, ransacked the house without uttering a word. They
allegedly confiscated their phones, laptops and other valuables before
handcuffing her husband. "He always said that he
was not happy with how the South Sudanese government was doing things. He
always questioned the government and held it responsible for all the suffering
in South Sudan," Aliet told Citizen TV's Emily Chebet. "He talked about these
issues constantly; about corruption and about how one man is treating South
Sudan like he owns it himself. He believed that this man is holding the
democracy of a country in his hands and destroying the country," one of
Awikjok's kin said. Four days later, the family of
Awikjok has no idea of his whereabouts with a few social media posts indicating
that he may have been taken back to his country. "I don't know whether the
people who took him were from the Kenya government or South Sudan's," said
Aliet "They have not informed
us of his arrest and nobody has confirmed anything to us. We suspect that he
may have fallen just like the rest of the people that were taken from Kenya and
were assassinated," Awikjok's kin added. Two police officers stationed
at Hurligham East police post, just meters from Awikjok's house, told Citizen
TV that officers from the Anti-Terror Police Unit (ATPU) based in Nairobi area abducted
Awikjok but the unit has since denied the claims.  Amnesty International has
since condemned Awikjok's arbitrary arrest and detention. In a statement,
Amnesty International Executive Director Houghton Irungu urged the Kenyan and
South Sudan governments to unravel the mysterious disappearance of Awikjok.