Healthcare workers in Kiambu County are set
to stage a protest on Friday and march to Governor Kimani Wamatangi’s office to
present him with their grievances. This was revealed in a letter from the Kenya
Medical Practitioners, Pharmacists and Dentists Union (KMPDU) Central Branch
Secretary Dr. William Muriuki to the Kiambu Town OCS notifying him of their
intent and requesting for security. Dr. Muriuki, in the letter seen by Citizen
Digital, revealed that the doctors will begin their protest at the Kiambu Level
V Hospital before proceeding to the county assembly premises, and later on to
Governor Wamatangi’s office. “This is to inform you that the healthcare
workers tomorrow, February 10th 2023 will be having a peaceful demonstration
from Kiambu Level V Hospital to county assembly and to the governor's office
starting from 9:30am,” he stated. “The aim of the march is to register our
discontent and present memoranda detailing issues that the county government
needs to act on immediately to avoid further action.” Dr. Muriuki further stated: “The right to
picket and protest is a right enshrined in article 37 of the Constitution of
Kenya. Kindly be informed accordingly and provide security as envisaged in the
Public Orders Act of 1950 (as amended).” KMPDU national Secretary General Dr. Davji
Atellah, in a subsequent statement, endorsed the move by the Kiambu medics,
further urging their colleagues across the country to march together in
solidarity with them. Dr. Atellah decried what he termed as the
government’s neglect of healthcare workers’ needs, further slamming the “unjust”
change of their insurance cover to a “private inferior” one. “Attention all healthcare workers!Are you
tired of the government's neglect towards the well-being of our medical
community? Tomorrow we all rally together in Kiambu County and peacefully march
to the Governor’s office to deliver a memorandum on the dissatisfaction with
the Kiambu healthcare workers unjust change of insurance cover from NHIF to a private
inferior medical cover,” he noted. “It is time for us to take a stand and demand
what we deserve. As healthcare providers, we risk our lives every day to save
others, but it seems like our own well-being is not a priority for this county
government. We deserve insurance coverage that protects us and our families in
case of any unforeseen events.”  He added: “It's time for our voices to be
heard. Let us show that we will not be silenced, and our demands for fair insurance
coverage must be met. Wear your scrubs, bring your signs, and let's march
together in solidarity.”