President William Ruto has established a 27-member task force to spearhead the establishment of the national lottery in line with Kenya
Kwanza's Bottom-Up Economic Transformation Agenda (BETA). According to a Gazette notice dated 17, the head of state announced the formation of the lottery program which he said would increase the government's
revenue collection to help deliver on its promises to citizens. "To harness the collective synergies among the public
in being part of the solution through participating in a national lottery whose
proceeds will contribute towards good causes and the amelioration of the plight
of persons in need, it is notified that William Samoei
Ruto, has appointed a Presidential Taskforce on the establishment of a
National Lottery which shall be structured in two tiers, namely; the Steering
Committee and the Technical Committee," read the statement by Head of Public Service Felix Koskei. "The  Administration’s Transformative Plan for the
Nation espoused as Bottom-Up Economic Transformation Agenda (BETA), posits a
national lottery as part of the institutional framework to mobilise resources
to supplement the Government’s efforts towards addressing various social causes
and needs." The first batch of six members of the steering committee
includes four Principal Secretaries (PS) or their representatives, the
Solicitor-General or his representative and a representative of the council of
governors. The PSs are from four ministries including the Treasury, Interior, Culture and Heritage and Social
Protection. Dr Narendra Raval was appointed the chairperson while Gideon
G. Thuranira is his deputy. Other members are Paul Russo, Judith Karigu Kiragu, Anne
Wakathiru Njenga, Grace Kamau,  Abdillahi
K. Mutwafy and Jackline Chelangat Tonui. The 10 members of the technical committee which would be
chaired by Dr Linda Musumba are Wanjiku Wakogi, Dr Eric Aligula, Collins Kiprono,  Peter Mbugi, 
Fred Mbasi, Geoffrey Malombe, Eric Korir, Wilson Njenga,  Catherine Ochanda and Murimi Murage. Clinton Mwita and
Margaret Githaiga were selected to be the Joint Secretaries in the aforementioned
commitee. Among the key roles of the task force whose Secretariat will be
domiciled at State House is to undertake a comprehensive review of the best
practices on the establishment of national lotteries and
to develop the policy and implementation plan that will guide the operationalization of the National Lottery in Kenya.  The notice also underscores
that the members will facilitate consultations
with all key stakeholders and examine the
existing administrative, institutional, policy, and legislative structures in the betting and gaming industry and recommend comprehensive
reforms.