 In a statement issued after a two-day Azimio Parliamentary group meeting in Machakos, Odinga sent out a warning message to members of the coalition, stating that any form of betrayal will not be tolerated. “The Parliamentary Group restates the position that Azimio does not recognize Dr William Ruto as the legitimate President of the Republic of Kenya,” read the statement issued by Odinga’s Spokesperson Dennis Onyango. “In this struggle, we shall not tolerate acts that amount to a betrayal of the dreams and aspirations of the people of Kenya. Azimio, therefore, asks its elected leaders to shape up or ship out. There will be no two ways about this. The flirtations and co-habitations with the Kenya Kwanza regime under whatever pretext is totally unacceptable.” The Azimio Chief reiterated State House does appropriate funds hence Azimio MPs should not claim to be chasing development funds in their association with the Executive. He rather cautioned the lawmakers against falling prey to politics of ‘blackmail’ which would derail their service delivery and representation of their electorates.  “We are currently engaged in a just struggle for this nation; a struggle for a good standard of living, struggle for democracy and struggle to safeguard our hard-won multi-party political system that is under threat,” stated Odinga. “Development is to be sought from Parliament which appropriates resources and not from State House. State House has no constitutional mandate or power to appropriate funds. That mandate and power reside in the two houses of Parliament, the Senate and National Assembly.”  He added: "Our people must not succumb to the blackmail, dirty politics and dirty money being dished out by the regime that is struggling for legitimacy.” Odinga’s sentiments come after a section of MPs allied to the coalition held a meeting with President William Ruto at State House, Nairobi. The MPs included; Kisumu Senator Tom Ojienda, MPs Felix Odiwuor (Langata), Mark Nyamita (Uriri), Caroli Omondi (Suba South), Gideon Ochanda (Bondo), Elisha Odhiambo (Gem), Paul Abuor (Rongo) and Walter Owino (Awendo). On Thursday, the former premier labelled the leaders as traitors as he called for their resignation terming the move as ‘political prostitution’.  "That is political prostitution and this is something that must stand condemned by all civilised Kenyans," he said while at Machakos.