For
years, the North Rift has been the hotspot of insecurity. Countless
reports of community clashes resulting in casualties, cattle rustling and
attacks on security forces. Bringing peace to the restive region has been the
elusive task of every administration to date. We
take you back to some chilling attacks and the interventions by government to
silence the guns: At
least 42 police officers and police reservists lost their lives in 2012 during
a security operation in Suguta valley, now famously known as ‘The valley of
death’.

It was the deadliest attack on security forces on Kenyan soil to date.

The young officers aged between 20 and 26 years were on a mission to recover
500 heads of stolen cattle that had been driven to Lomirok village, Turkana.

They were ambushed by over 100 armed attackers while deep in the valley minutes
after they had spotted the stolen animals. In
November 2012, the then police spokesperson Eric Kiraithe was quoted asking, “What were those officers doing there without
bullet proof vests?”

Then President Mwai Kibaki authorised the Kenya Defence Forces to be deployed
in Samburu County and other areas to provide support to Kenya Police Service in
apprehending the bandits and recovering stolen animals and arms.

It was part of a series of interventions by the government to stamp out the
bandit menace in the area. Two
years later, on October 31, 2014, 21 officers who were in pursuit of armed
raiders who three days before had killed three of their colleagues from the
General Service Unit, met their demise in Kapedo.

The raiders had attacked cars ferrying Kenya Certificate of Primary Education
examination materials and burned them.

President Uhuru Kenyatta visited the area shortly after the attack, demanding
that the killers and the guns they stole from the dead officers be handed over.


"The local leaders who say we wait
two weeks for the stolen guns to be returned, I am telling them that I refuse
to wait two weeks. You know where they are. Those guns that were stolen should
be retruned today,” the former president said in November 2014.

Since then, bandit-prone areas in Baringo, Turkana, Elgeyo Marakwet, West Pokot
and Samburu counties have been subject to government interventions. 

From disarmament drives, dusk to dawn curfews, barazas to foster peace and
cohesion, deployment of security forces and drones for surveillance and
investigations into the bandits' identities. None however have been effective
in quelling the violence.

The killings still persist, livestock in the thousands, stolen, schools closed,
and countless people displaced from their homes.   The
killing of two girls last month sparked calls from leaders, and the most recent
being on Saturday. “I want to inform the government
politely that Kerio valley is under a militia. The work of government is to
protect its people, it has abdicated that responsibility,” Marakwet
West Member of Parliament, Timothy Toroitich, said. Oh his
part, Kericho
Senator Aaron Cheruiyot says the government should enlist the services of the defense
forces to weed out bandits. “This country has army officers in barracks; I don’t
know what other war they are waiting for. I urge the president to direct them
to come to Kerio Valley to fight these defiant gangsters killing our people,”
Cheruiyot says.

For Transport Cabinet Secretary Kipchumba Murkomen, the solution is disarming
the bandits.  “The best solution is full disarmament, with
ultimate support of all of us to get all the guns, my colleague Kindiki is
sleeping in the bush trying to solve the problem of banditry, we must support
the government, whether you are Marakwet, Turkana or Pokot to end banditry and
cattle rustling,” the CS says.

The herculean task has now been inherited by the current regime, that has
committed to definitively dealing with the menace once and for all.