The United Nations launched an
appeal for $1 billion (around Ksh.125.6 billion) Thursday to help victims in Turkey of
last week's catastrophic earthquake that killed thousands of people and left
millions more in desperate need of aid. UN Secretary-General Antonio
Guterres said in a statement that the funds would provide humanitarian relief
for three months to 5.2 million people. The money would "allow
aid organizations to rapidly scale up vital support," including in the
areas of food security, protection, education, water and shelter, he added. "The needs are enormous,
people are suffering and there's no time to lose," Guterres implored. "I urge the international
community to step up and fully fund this critical effort in response to one of
the biggest natural disasters of our times." The 7.8-magnitude tremor early
on February 6 has killed more than 35,000 people in southeast Turkey, with
several thousand more losing their lives across the border in Syria. More than 9 million people in
Turkey have been directly impacted by the disaster, according to Ankara. Turkey's people have
experienced "unspeakable heartache," the UN's Emergency Relief
Coordinator Martin Griffiths said in a separate statement announcing the flash
appeal. "We must stand with them
in their darkest hour and ensure they receive the support they need,"
added Griffiths, who heads the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian
Affairs (OCHA). OCHA said in its statement
that hundreds of thousands of people, including small children and elderly
people, are without access to shelter, food, water, heaters and medical care in
freezing temperatures. It added that some 47,000
buildings have been destroyed or damaged across Turkey, with thousands of
people having sought refuge in temporary shelters. The UN is delivering hot
meals, food, tents, warm winter clothing, blankets, mattresses, kitchen sets
and medical supplies to affected areas, OCHA said. On Tuesday, the UN launched a
$397 million (around Ksh.49.9 billion)  appeal to help quake victims in
Syria.  The United Nations earlier
provided $50 million (approx. Ksh.6.3 billion) to relief efforts through its
central emergency response fund.