The Salaries and Remuneration Commission (SRC) has dismissed
a media report intimating that Early Childhood Development and Education (ECDE)
teachers are set to earn lower salaries than the minimum wage
capped at Ksh.15,120 following a proposed salary structure change by the state
agency. In a statement on Tuesday, SRC labeled the report as deceiving
while noting that its authors used basic pay instead of the gross salary to
calculate what ECDE teachers will be taking home if the salary changes are
implemented. "The reports were based on basic salary instead of the
gross salary, and thus, misleading. SRC hereby clarifies that in December 2021,
it advised a gross remuneration for the lowest cadre of ECDE teachers based in
Nairobi (Cluster 1) receiving between Ksh. 14,961 and Ksh. 15,842, while those
in Cluster 4 (other areas) receiving between Ksh.13,211 and Ksh.14,092,"
read the SRC statement. "This advice considered affordability and fiscal
sustainability of the wage bill for county governments. Upon a request from
county governments, SRC issued a clarification on 13 January 2023 reiterating
its earlier position on the remuneration and benefits of ECDE teachers." SRC added that it is currently reviewing the remuneration
for all public officers, including ECDE teachers, under the third remuneration
review cycle, and which shall be issued by June 2023. "In line with our mandate of setting, reviewing and
advising on the remuneration and benefits in the public service, SRC will
continue to engage and respond to stakeholders on the matter, as appropriate,"
said SRC. The
Kenya Union of Pre-Primary Education Teachers (KUNOPPET) has since protested
over the controversial proposal from the SRC. While addressing the media on
Sunday, KUNOPPET chairman Lawrence Otunga said that they will not allow nursery
teachers to be despised and humiliated through earning low salaries and should
be treated fairly as other public servants. Otunga
vowed to fight for the revision of the salary recommendation until when a
reasonable decision is met. "We are not happy with
SRC's decision to humiliate us. Is seven thousand enough salary for a teacher?
How will a teacher pay house rent and pay school fees for their children? A
teacher also has their personal needs and families to take care of," he
said then.  "We
deny the recommendations from SRC to governors and we say that nursery teachers
will not be despised and we are here to fight for the rights of every ECDE
teacher."