The National Assembly has invited
public participation on alleged malpractices in the 2022 Kenya Certificate of
Secondary Education (KCSE) Exam whose results were released last month. The results announced by Education
Cabinet Secretary Ezekiel Machogu on January 20 drew mixed reactions from
Kenyans, with some alleging cheating. This was after schools in some counties
recorded what was perceived to be extraordinarily good performances. Case in point was Nyambaria and Mobamba
high schools, both in Nyamira County, which had all their 488 and 388
candidates respectively securing the C+ minimum university entry requirement.
Mobimba had a mean score of 5.11 in 2021, which it raised to 9.28 in last
year's exam. Through a public notice dated February
2, Clerk of the National Assembly Samuel Njoroge said the Committee on
Education had resolved to conduct a public inquiry into the allegations and
make recommendations to the House. “The
inquiry's terms of reference are to carry out a comprehensive analysis of KCSE
examination results for the years 2019 to 2022 to determine whether there is a
trend capable of providing plausible interpretations that can lead to
conclusions on whether there was cheating as reported." "To examine
whether there was cheating and other malpractices in the examination, how they
were arranged, the parties involved and extent of involvement, and the parties
that bear the greatest responsibility,” the notice read. Njoroge said
the committee also seeks to examine the measures taken by the Education Ministry and the Kenya National Examinations Council to curb examination
cheating and other malpractices end their adequacy. “To consider
the effectiveness of KNEC guidelines and rules in curbing examination
malpractices; to examine whether examination marking stations were adequately
prepared regarding the marking schemes, integrity of markers, award of marks
and the moderation process. To determine
the efficiency, and effectiveness of Examination Management Officers from KNEC
headquarters deployed to schools and whether they were involved; and to
determine whether there is need for legislative measures, including review of,
penalties on examination malpractices to enhance deterrence,” he added. The House invited
members of the public to submit memoranda on the specific terms of reference of
the inquiry and on any other relevant issue the public may wish the Committee
to consider. Among
those who raised concerns was Saboti MP Caleb Amisi, who called for probe into
alleged rigging. CS
Machogu has however since defended the results as credible, dismissing cheating
claims as propaganda.  “From where I sit, there was no cheating. This is propaganda
started by people who do not have proper intentions for the country,” the CS
said on January 27, adding that the number of candidates attaining C+ has gradually
increased over the years since before he took over the ministry.