The Anglican
Church of Kenya (ACK) has distanced itself from the Church of England’s recent  resolution to offer blessings to same-sex
marriages. Archbishop Dr.
Jackson Ole Sapit, in a statement to newsrooms on Saturday, faulted the ACK
parent church terming the move hypocritical and sinful, saying that the ACK
would not condone homosexuality as it is against the teachings of Christianity. He instead urged
the Church of England to repent and shun away from misleading teachings. “It is ridiculous
that the Church of England affirms to remain faithful to the traditional
teachings of marriage yet have sanctioned the so-called prayers of love to be
used in their Churches to bless unions between persons of same-sex. This is
hypocritical and a blatant lie for there is only one truth and not many
versions or opinions of it,” sated Ole Sapit. “The General Synod
of the Church of England makes legislations for the Church of England, and
their resolutions apply only to the Church of England. Whereas we in the
Anglican Church of Kenya (ACK) are saddened by the departure of our mother
Church from the true Gospel, their resolutions do not apply to us and we do not
recognize any teaching that is extra-biblical or contrary to the teachings of
the Bible.” He added: “We in
the Anglican Church of Kenya call upon these Western liberal Provinces to
repent and return to the one and only faith in Jesus Christ as revealed and
taught in the Canonical scriptures of the Church.” The ACK cited the Bible,
underscoring that marriage - according to Christianity - is only meant to be
between a man and a woman. “We affirm that
marriage, as taught in the Holy Scriptures is between one man and one woman,
monogamous and heterosexual. Any deviation from this God-designed covenant
relationship is sinful and unacceptable,” stated the Archbishop. According to Rev. Ole
Sappit, Western churches have been secularised to deviate from the traditional
teachings of religion and are now corrupting believers. He, therefore,
advised all Christians to remain firm in the original teachings of the
scriptures. “We affirm that
the Holy Scripture is authoritative in all matters of faith and any departure
from the historic formularies and the plain teachings of the scripture is an
error and must be corrected,” stated Ole Sapit. “Rhetoric of
political and secular correctness will only serve to undermine the one and only
pure Gospel, and unless these churches preach the Gospel as we inherited it,
they will soon be irrelevant and lose their identity as a Church.” The remarks come following
a pronouncement by Pope Francis last month where he stated that homosexuality is not a crime.  He would
later clarify his
sentiments saying he was referring to the Catholic moral teaching which
says that 'every sexual act outside of marriage is a sin.”