Attorney
General Justin Muturi has said he will head to the Supreme Court to challenge
the ruling allowing the registration of LGBTQ NGOs. On Friday, the Supreme Court said
that the decision to deny LGBTQ members their right to register as an NGO,
despite homosexuality being illegal in the nation, was discriminatory. This followed a ruling made in 2013
by lower courts to deny members of the community in Kenya to register a
Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO) for the advancement of their rights. Muturi who spoke
on Sunday at a church in Manyatta, Embu County, said that Kenyans ought to be
allowed to state their opinion over the issue of LGBTQ people since it weighs
on life. He said the
debate must be taken outside the church and Kenyans invited to give their input. The AG said
that the country has its values and in the interest of the public, he will be seeking
full bench of Supreme Court to address itself over the matter. Other leaders
who attended the thanksgiving service include Kiambu Woman Representative Ann Wamuratha,
who said the ruling was in conflict with constitution. Wamuratha
said she will be also tabling a motion in parliament to seeking amend of Sexual
Act. Friday’s
ruling has been met with backlash from members of the church. Clerics from the Redeemed Gospel Church of Kenya have condemned
the ruling, saying that the LGBTQ lobby groups should not even be allowed in
Kenya. Archbishop
Arthur Kitonga said that allowing such can bring curses to the country since it
amounts to breaking the laws of God. CITAM presiding bishop Calisto Odede on
his part questioned the Apex court's ruling, likening LGBTQ persons to what he called
“illegal practitioners” such as pedophiles. "This rather contradictory
ruling has left many of us wondering whether other illegal practitioners like
paedophiles and those involved in incest also have right of association and if
not, how different they are from homosexuals. And perhaps criminal organisations
as well," he said in a statement.  Bishop Odede
affirmed that the church will not cower from condemning such rulings, arguing
that encouraging homosexual behaviour wrecks the cultural norms of Africa and
stands against Christian doctrines.