Three police
constables were on Tuesday arrested after they reportedly harassed two
university students, demanding a Ksh.100K bribe from each. According to
a police report from the Lang'ata police station, Victor Khisa, John Odhiambo
and  Timothy Otieno accosted Alvin Kyalo,
a student at the Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology (JKUAT)
and Robert Mutugi from Daystar University, at the T-Mall's entrance who were from having lunch at Magharb building just nearby the mall. Kyalo was then bundled into a white Toyota
Vitz while Mutugi was taken into a silver Toyota Premio which had three
occupants - one dressed in full jungle uniform and two others in civilian
clothes. "The
two were held in the said vehicles for more than four hours. They were forced
to call their parents and send one hundred thousand each in order to
secure their release or be taken to custody, read part of the statement. Mutugi was
then escorted to a nearby M-Pesa agent where he was forced to withdraw some
Ksh.10K he had received from his father and another Ksh.10K which he had with
him.  Kyalo then contacted his mother, who  reportedly works in the city center. When she arrived,  the officers are said to have asked her to hand over Ksh.100,000 in order to secure her son's release. According to the police report, she also declined the request to get into a police vehicle, instead, asking to be allowed to withdraw money from the mall. At the mall, she spotted officers on patrol and reported the matter, prompting police officers to action. "She
told them to wait for her as she withdrew the cash at t- mall.  At T-Mall she met police officers from Nyayo
police post who were on patrol and reported the incident. The officers rushed
to where the two motor vehicles were parked and managed to arrest two suspects
who were in the Vitz and rescued Kyalo," stated the statement. Four other
occupants who were in the Premio managed to escape upon seeing the police. According to the police report, one students complained of having been assaulted by
the suspects.  They were detained at Langata police station pending their arraignment. Meanwhile, a manhunt for the suspects who fled is on.