The family of Fredrick Leliman, a former police
officer who has started serving his death sentence after being found guilty of
murdering lawyer Willie Kimani, his client Josphat Mwenda and their taxi driver
Joseph Muiruri in 2016, has now apologized to the victims’ families. The family says they’re sorry over the
painful loss and untold sufferings caused by their beloved son. Citizen TV caught up with Leliman's
distraught parents and close relatives in Marigat, Baringo County, as they try
coming to terms with the fate that befell someone they describe as humble,
discipline and a leader. The ex-cop’s 70-year-old father Stephen
Leliman is now left with fond memories of his son, whom he says never at any
time during parenting had a disciplinary issue. “Hakuwahi fanya kitu mbaya...hakuna mtu amewai
kuja kuniambia kijana wangu amemkoses...hata nikiskia hii maneno nilikuwa
nashtuka sana kwa maana singetarajia kama anaweza fanya kitu kama hiyo,” he
says. “Mimi nasema aisulu kwa maana mimi sina
nguvu, wacha niwachie Mungu, yeye pekee yake ndio anajua. Mimi naomba msamaha
kwa Wakenya, nisaidie kwa huyu kijana aappeal hiyo kesi yake.” Leliman's father describes his first-born son
as the sole bread winner among his 12 children, who built him this house
shortly after he joined the National Police Service (NPS). He now says he is left to raise his son's
three children. “Mimi ninategemea
yeye wakati wote...sasa nikutafuta hapa na pale...,” he states. Eunice Leliman, Fredrick Leliman's mother,
describes her son as an honest child, calling upon the State to review its
death verdict against him. “Mtoto wangu
alikuwa mkarimu, naomba mahakama imwachilie,” she says. Wilson Leliman, his elder uncle, says he
partly raised the ex-police officer and that he was a very disciplined and
straight forward person.  Relatives, neighbours and friends continue to
visit Leliman's family in Baringo County as they come to terms with the events
that befell not only a family unit but the clan and community.