The Azimio
la Umoja One Kenya coalition on Friday concluded a two-day Parliamentary
Group meeting in Machakos where a raft of resolutions aimed at strengthening
the party and keeping the government on its toes were agreed upon. In a statement issued by Azimio party leader Raila Odinga’s
spokesperson Dennis Onyango the coalition vowed to oppose various government plans
among them the intention to privatise
18 loss-making parastatals through the National Securities Exchange "These
entities, some of which are critical to our nation security, must be allowed to
continue serving public good rather than lining the pockets of
individuals," read the statement. "Further,
these parastals are public property and cannot be sold without Parliamentary
approval. The current attempt to amend the law so that these parastatals are
sold at the whim of administration will be resisted by the people of
Kenya." Azimio also
wants the Kenya Kwanza administration to move with haste and address the
confusion surrounding the implementation of the Junior High School program. "Azimio
pays tribute to the late Prof. George Magoha whom we lay to rest tomorrow for
his passion, vision and resolve that is now missing. Had this administration
let Prof. Magoha stay, we are sure we would not have witnessed the
confusion we see today. "They
refused to allow him to finish his work of implanting the new education system
and instead elevated politics above the interests of the children of
Kenya," said
Azimio. The coalition similarly wants Ruto's administration to fast-track the disbursement
of HELB loans to university students owing to rising inflation being witnessed
across the country. "Azimio
notes that inflation has wiped out the purchasing power of the current
allowances given to university students and demands that the administration
must also increase the amount available under HELB in light of the
inflation," he said. In this
regard, Azimio urged President Ruto to reinstitute affordable catering services
in all public universities to cushion students from the high cost of living. The Odinga-led outfit further resolved to back devolved functions such as water, health and agriculture transferred
to counties while urging the Kenya Kwanza administration to release funds set
aside for county development which they claim the regime is withholding. . "The
Kenya Kwanza regime must immediately stop all lies and release the NG-CDF and
NGAF monies to all constituencies to help ease the burden of people for whom
these funds are a lifeline. Twice the regime has promised to release the money
but failed to keep its word," read the statement. In matters
health, Azimio asked
President Ruto to employ over 4,000 doctors who remain jobless despite their
qualifications in a bid to shore up the country's Universal Health Care agenda. "Kenya
Kwanza must immediately make it possible for county governments to employ these
doctors as part of the process to achieve UHC," said the coalition. While noting
that Azimio does not recognise Ruto's presidency, Odinga maintained that the outfit will not participate
in the reconstitution of IEBC through the formula and process being proposed by
the Kenya Kwanza regime. Azimio also
wants Kenya Kwanza to take steps to bring down the cost of goods and services
and in addition also increase the minimum wage to keep it above inflation. "The
cost of living was supposed to come down immediately the administration took
power but today the administration does not even mention it. Unga was supposed
to be trading at 70 now," said Azimio. "That
with Azimio providing leadership, Kenya Kwanza be forced to restore and expand
the social protection programs which guarantee a basic monthly income to the
poor."