Nominated
Senator Gloria Orwoba says she is considering leaving Twitter due to internet
bullies who have descended on her since Tuesday’s incident where
she was ejected from a Senate
plenary for wearing what seemed to be blood-stained pants. Senator Orwoba had attended the session in the stained pair
of white trousers in what she said were efforts to raise awareness on menstrual hygiene and end “period
shame.” In Thursday morning interview with Hot 96, the legislator said
she had been on the receiving end of “intense” abuse from people on Twitter. “This thing
of having a thick skin, no! We are human beings. In fact, I am contemplating
leaving Twitter. That whole cyber-bullying thing I will leave to Nyamu
(Nominated Senator Karen Nyamu). She knows how to deal with it,” Orwaba said. She said
although Senator Nyamu, who herself has had her fair share of online backlash,
had advised her to soldier on, the bullies were “getting to her”. “I was talking
to Senator Nyamu about it and she said no (to her leaving Twitter). She said
the moment you get through it and cross to the other side no one can tell you
anything. But it is intense and it gets to you. I won’t lie that I don’t care because
it really gets to me,” said Orwaba.   Senator Mutinda described Orwoba’s dressing as “inappropriate” and “indecent”, going ahead to even assert that she was disturbed as a fellow woman. Among those
who have however voiced support for the senator are Nairobi Governor Johnson Sakaja,
who in a tweet on Wednesday termed
the legislator’s move as “bold and provocative.” The county boss vowed to support menstrual hygiene across the
city. “Senator Gloria Orwoba. That was bold and provocative. To
change some things you must make people uncomfortable and you did! I’ll do my
part in Nairobi for our girls,” he wrote.   In response,
Orwaba has praised Sakaja for “understanding what is happening” and challenged
him to take up the cause in the capital. “Kudos to Sakaja. We need men like those who
understand what is happening to be part of the conversation. I hope he allocates
something in their county budget towards menstrual health,” she said on Thursday. Orwaba further
noted that men need education on menstrual health from the women in their families
to understand the challenges they go through. “We need to educate people a bit more. I am
not saying they are stupid, I am saying it is understandable that they wouldn’t
know about periods. I would say to them try to be understanding. Maybe sit down
your daughters and wives and have a candid conversation,” she said. In her view,
the topic is received with hostility because a majority of men still do not
understand what exactly women go through.  “There are many
men who just disappear for days when their partners say they are on their
periods, and return to ask if it is over. They need to ask their lovers, how do
exactly you feel and what do you use? They can learn from a first-hand
experience and when they speak it will be from an informed position,” Orwoba
said.