Russia launched a Soyuz
spacecraft that will replace a capsule that sprang a coolant leak in December,
leaving two cosmonauts and one NASA astronaut without a ride home. Liftoff of the capsule, called
the Soyuz MS-23, took place out of Russia’s Baikonur Cosmodrome launch site in
Kazakhstan on Thursday night. The unmanned spacecraft will
spend about two days in orbit, maneuvering toward the International Space
Station. It’s expected to dock with the Poisk module —
which is on the space station’s Russian-run portion — just after 8 p.m. ET
Saturday. The Soyuz MS-23 will be the
return vehicle for cosmonauts Sergey Prokopyev and Dmitri Petelin and NASA
astronaut Frank Rubio, all of whom traveled to the space station aboard the Soyuz
MS-22 capsule in September. Rather than flying with crew members
aboard, the Soyuz MS-23 launched on Thursday with only a “Zero-G indicator,”
which can be any object that is left in the cabin and is designed to float
freely when the capsule enters microgravity. For this mission, the
indicator is a teddy bear tethered by a string inside the cabin. About two months into the
three men’s journey, the MS-22 experienced a coolant leak, leaving the cabin at
temperatures deemed unsafe for the crewmates to use for their return journey. The Russian space agency
Roscosmos and NASA quickly worked to establish plans to send a replacement
vehicle. Roscosmos officials said they
had determined that the leak resulted from a small hole caused by an impact
with a micrometeoroid. Plans to launch the rescue
vehicle, however, were drawn into question when a Russian cargo ship, called
Progress, experienced a similar coolant leak after docking with the space
station on February 11. Three days later, Roscosmos
had said in a post on the social media site Telegram, that it would delay the
Soyuz MS-23 launch until at least March while the agency investigated the cause
of the Progress vehicle’s coolant leak. On Tuesday, however, Roscosmos
said in an updated Telegram post that it had determined the cause of the
Progress spacecraft leak was “external influences.” “The Russians are continuing
to take a very close look at both the Soyuz and the Progress coolant leaks,”
Dana Weigel, the space station’s deputy manager for NASA, said during a
Wednesday briefing. “They formed a state
commission that is assessing the anomalies,” she added, noting that the team is
analyzing potential causes from the time the capsules launched through their
journey in orbit. Originally, Roscosmos
cosmonauts Oleg Kononenko and Nikolai Chub and NASA astronaut Loral O’Hara were
expected to launch to the space station on March 16 aboard MS-23. Instead, Prokopyev, Petelin
and Rubio’s time will be extended on the space station until they can return to
Earth aboard Soyuz MS-23 later this year. That return could happen in
September, according to a report from Russia state-run media outlet TASS. If that timeline holds, the
three crewmates will have extended their expected six-month stay in space to
about one year. When asked about the extended
stay, Joel Montalbano, the space station’s program manager for NASA, said the
crew remains in good health and there is no reason to expedite their journey
home. The crew is “willing to help
wherever we ask,” Montalbano said during a January 11 news conference. “They’re excited to be in space, excited to
work and excited to do the research that we do on orbit. So they are ready to
go with whatever decision that we give them.” He added, “I may have to fly
some more ice cream to reward them.” The launch of the Soyuz MS-23
spacecraft comes just days before NASA and SpaceX will launch their Crew-6
mission. Expected to lift off early
Monday morning, Crew-6 will carry NASA astronauts Stephen Bowen and Warren
“Woody” Hoburg as well as Sultan Alneyadi, an astronaut with the United Arab
Emirates, and Roscosmos cosmonaut Andrey Fedyaev. Shortly after those four
arrive at the space station, NASA’s Crew-5 astronauts will return home from
their five-month stay there aboard the SpaceX Crew Dragon capsule.  NASA officials said this week
that the coolant leaks experienced on the Soyuz and Progress vehicles would not
have any impact on the SpaceX missions and that no similar issues were
discovered on Crew Dragon vehicles.