ODM Party Chairman John Mbadi now says he is ready to quit
from the party leadership. Mbadi, who has been at loggerheads with a section of party
members since the conclusion of the last General Election, says he has done his
bit as the ODM chair for the last 9 years. The nominated MP has been accused by a section of members of
sabotaging the party leader by not attending rallies that have been held by the
Azimio coalition in Nairobi City. “Those who think being chairman is so important to them let
them offer themselves to lead, I am very ready to leave the position to them,
right now I am the chair but I am not dying to be the chair, I have done by bit
they took away my position as the minority leader. "I am still alive, they can
still take away the chairmanship, I will still be alive. I want to repeat it
for the record, I want to leave this position of ODM chair,” Mbadi declared. Mbadi says his party leader Raila Odinga already knows his
position on the issue, and the only impediment as of now is that there is no
vice chairperson to hand over the mantle to. “I am not a person to run away from the office before we get
good succession, I want to be succeeded, and still I will serve the party in
whatever capacity. You know some people think being a chair is something I am
dying for, far from the truth, I have done my bit,” he added. Mbadi came short of declaring he will not be attending the rallies
as he said he has better avenues to address issues that pertain to the party. “The same people at one point did not want me to attend the
rallies, so since when did they discover that my attendance to rallies is
important? I have other forums to address the party issues. I am better of even
in parliament articulating issues of the party,” Mbadi retorted. Mbadi, who has served as the party chair for the last 9
years, says its time fresh blood came in to lead, adding that he will support
the next chair. He however says he is still a staunch follower of Raila
Odinga and he can’t speak against what Raila stands for.  “I am the chairman of the party and I can’t speak against
what the party leader says. I will have to resign for me to do that, otherwise, we won’t have a party it will be chaos,” he said.