 This after CS Kuria, a few weeks after China Square was launched, said that Chinese investors are welcome to Kenya, "but as manufacturers, not traders" and the premise where the shopping hub is located should therefore be given to local traders. He has even made an offer to China Square owner Mr. Cheng to set up a manufacturing plant in Kenya and work on a distribution partnership with small-scale traders in Gikomba, Nyamakima, Eastleigh, Kamukunji, Muthurwa, and River Road. Opposing CS Kuria's sentiments, MP Koech said that it is unfair to criminalize Mr. Cheng yet he has met all the requirements needed for setting up a business in Kenya. Speaking on Citizen TV's Daybreak show on Monday, the Belgul legislator noted that the government should instead open its doors to foreign investors and create incentives on how the local market will remain cushioned from market depreciation. "On this, I personally think the minister was wrong on so many fronts. We must be people who attract investments. This Chinese (Mr Cheng) fulfilled all the requirements," he said. "Let him provide incentives for businesses in Nyamakima without interfering with businesses that are licenced and operating legally in this country." MP Koech further argued that the Chinese retailer is paying taxes as equally as any other trader in the nation and should not be crucified for selling the same commodities found in the local market at more affordable rates. According to him, the introduction of more players in the retail market will play a pivotal role in bolstering the country's economy. "Let us allow everyone to operate and provide opportunities to get products at a cheaper price. Let there be a huge competition for us to get value for money. The same product that is sourced from wherever they are being sourced from, this Chinese pays the same taxes just as much as the Kenyan trader is paying," he said. "What the minister is saying is that 'no do not buy the cheaper one, there is another product here that you can get for twice as much'. Let us be people who are serious." China Square, situated on Kenyatta University’s UniCity Mall, is a one-stop shopping hub along Thika Road which caused excitement as it stocks a wide variety of products under one roof and at relatively affordable rates which have seen customers throng its alleys. CS Kuria urged KU's Vice Chancellor Prof Wainaina to buy out the lease for the establishment and then hand it over to local traders in a bid to boost their businesses, which have presumably suffered a hit since China Square came to town on January 29.