 Speaking on Citizen TV's Daybreak show on Monday, MP Mbui said that Sabina will be de-whipped from the parliament position she holds as the Deputy Minority Whip, claiming that she will be no longer effective in representing the minority. "Its a no-brainer. Sabina Chege is the current deputy whip in the Azimio la Umoja coalition. So if she has gone to work with Kenya Kwanza how is she going to whip us?" he posed. "Whipping in the house means that we want the position of our coalition to be supported. She says she is supporting the other side. It does not even need for us to de-whip her. She needed to have just resigned from that office. We will just confirm whoever will continue with that work." This comes after Sabina and a section of Jubilee MPs had a meeting with President Ruto which has sparked tension within the party and the Azimio la Umoja coalition. The MPs have also committed to work with Ruto's government in realizing the Kenya Kwanza agenda. MP Mbui also opined that there is the possibility that some of the MPs 'will return' to the Azimio la Umoja coalition noting that the development talks which were said to be the agenda of the meetings will not come to fruition. He argued that the Treasury declared that the country’s economy is in a strained status and that there are no resources to finance key public expenditures. He also dismissed the possibility of more members meeting with the Head of State, affirming that the members who have remained have fully pledged loyalty to the Azimio coalition. "We are about 120 now and we are still a hundred percent committed to the course. I believe that there even some who have gone who might come back," he said. "When they went they said that they are going to get development and when they walked out the Treasury CS that there is no money for development. They are likely to come back because there is no money for development from there." There have also been tensions within the ODM party after a section of its members met with President Ruto and the party boss Raila Odinga has since termed them as traitors and that they should resign from the party. The ODM MPs facing the axe are Gideon Ochanda (Bondo), Elisha Odhiambo (Gem), Mark Nyamita (Uriri) and Caroli Omondi (Suba South), Paul Abuor (Rongo), Felix Odiwuor alias Jalang’o (Lang’ata) and Kisumu Senator Tom Ojienda. On the Jubliee cohort there is Eldas MP Aden Keynan, John Waluke (Sirisia), Mark Mwenje (Embakasi West), Sabina Chege (Nominated), Stanley Muthama (Lamu West) and Yusuf Hassan (Kamukunji) among others.