Director Of Public Prosecutions
(DPP) Noordin Haji says a decision is yet to be made on whether former Interior
Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i should be 
prosecuted over the Ksh.1.5 billion Ruaraka school land saga. Haji says he is awaiting
conclusion of a crucial part of the probe before making a decision adding
that he will not shield any person
regardless of their previous or current positions in government. The DPP,  who spoke to Citizen TV's Sam Gituku, also
dismissed claims by Matiang'i, that he was being targeted for arrest and
prosecution. "For a long time it is
the media that has been asking of the Ruaraka land. Once the file is ready, we
will make the decision and we will inform the public. We are awaiting
finalization of the financial investigations. Once that is ready is complete we
will make an appropriate decision," said Haji. In 2018, the Ethics and Anti-Corruption
Commission (EACC0 named Matiang'i and his then PS of Education Dr. Belio Kipsang
in the unprocedural and compulsory acquisition of the Ruaraka land. The EACC
indicated that the land  belonged to the
government in the first place but the matter has never been concluded. Haji says he is not aware if
Matiang'i is wanted by the investigative authorities. "In regards to other
investigations, that question will have to be addressed to the investigating
authority. No one is above the law; anyone can be investigated," said
Haji. In his application for
anticipatory bail, Matiang'i told the court in an affidavit that a scheme to
have him arrested was hatched during the recent conference of African
prosecutors in Mombasa attended by President William Ruto and hosted by DPP
Haji but the DPP has since termed Matiang'i's claim as perjury. "I have noted his
application in court and has alleged that the President and I met at the
sidelines of the meeting to plan against him. That is a perjury and I will take
him to task. Let him table the evidence; we have several AGs and I have evidence
that no such thing happened. That is perjury to mislead the public," he
said. Matiang'i has also alleged that
there are plans to pursue some of his former cabinet colleagues with the aim of
arresting and charging them in court but Haji claims to have no knowledge on
the same. "I take exception that
there is an issue that any of those is going to be investigated," said the
DPP.  He added that unlike the
previous administration of Uhuru Kenyatta, he is currently enjoying the peace
of service with no pressure or persuasion in the execution of his duties.