President William Ruto has
made more appointments to boards of parastatals and state agencies, as he
continues to structure his administration, six months into office. In a gazette notice dated
February 24, the President has appointed former Ainamoi Member of Parliament
Sylvanus Maritim to chair the board of Information Communication and Technology
Authority. Maritim was among the 240
people shortlisted for appointment as Chief Administrative Secretaries.
Fredrick Owino’s appointment as chairman of the ICT authority board has been revoked
to pave way for Maritim. Ugas Sheikh Mohamed is the new
chairman of the Capital Markets Authority board. Mohamed, who unsuccessfully
contested for the Wajir County gubernatorial seat in the August 9th General
Election on an ANC ticket will take over from businessman Nick Nesbitt whose
appointment was revoked by the president. He is also listed among those
eyeing the CAS positions. The board of State
Corporations Advisory Committee has a new secretary. President Ruto appointed
Simon Indimuli Muyumba to the position and handed him a three year contract. Muyumba replaces Wanjiku
Wakogi whose appointment was revoked. Veteran kikuyu radio shows
presenter John Njogu wa Njoroge has also landed a state appointment. Youth
affairs, sports and the arts Cabinet Secretary Ababu Namwamba appointed him for
a 3-year term, to chair the board of Kenya Film Classification. Njogu bowed out of the Njoro
parliamentary race at the UDA nominations stage. The Kenya Classification Board
appointed by includes popular kikuyu gospel musician John Muigai Nyururu also
known as Muigai wa Njoroge. Other members are Kipruto Kiptoo, John Osimbo,
Grace Munjuri, Hariety Zita, Stephanie Maseki and Raphael Loperito. The National Social Security
Fund (NSSF) has two new board members. Isaac Kaberia and Dr. Milka Kimonda were
appointed for a three-year term by Labour CS Cabinet Secretary Florence Bore.  They take over from Prof.
Marion Mutugi and Peter Mweleli whose appointments were revoked.