 Speaking to Citizen Digital, Jalang’o said he received a call from the Head of State ahead of the meeting whose agenda, he insists, was development-oriented and not political. “The President personally called me to attend the meeting at State House and I accepted the invitation,” said Jalang’o. He added: “The agenda of the meeting was heavily development. We discussed projects that the President promised to implement when he visited Luo Nyanza last month.” The Langa’ata MP, who is a self-proclaimed diehard supporter of opposition leader Raila Odinga became a trending topic on Twitter after photos of the meeting were shared on social media. One of the photos from the State House meeting that drew much attention online captured Jalango having a tête-à-tête with the President. Asked what the President was telling him during the private chat, Jalang’o told Citizen Digital that Ruto was confirming to him that an extra Ksh.50 million had been allocated for the completion of the Lang’ataTechnical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET) institute. “About that photo trending on social media, the President was telling me that the Langata TVET project is on and an extra Ksh.50 million has been allocated for its completion,” said Jalang’o. After the meeting, which has triggered mixed reactions in the political arena, the ODM party issued a statement terming some of the MPs who were at State House as “selfish leaders who only care about their stomachs and not the well-being of the millions of poor Kenyans.” The nine MPs who attended the meeting with President Ruto are Kisumu Senator Tom Ojienda, MPs Felix Odiwuor (Langata), Mark Nyamita (Uriri), Caroli Omondi (Suba South), Gideon Ochanda (Bondo), Elisha Odhiambo (Gem), Paul Abuor (Rongo) and Walter Owino (Awendo).  Independent MP Shakeel Shabir (Kisumu East) who has been voting with the minority side in Parliament also attended the morning meeting at State House. The Azimio La Umoja coalition party has since issued a statement threatening to take action against disloyal Members of Parliament. Addressing the media after the State House meeting, Minority leader Opiyo Wandayi said Azimio has convened a must-attend meeting of their National Assembly members on Thursday. 