Almost 50 people were
injured in Peru in violent clashes between law enforcement and anti-government
protesters outside an airport Thursday, a month after 18 demonstrators were
killed at the same location. A march had been
organized in the city of Juliaca, Peru's southern Puno region, to demand
justice for the 18 civilians killed on January 9, but it turned violent when
protesters again tried to enter the Inca Manco Capac airport. Twenty-three
protesters sustained injuries -- including three minors -- one of whom had a
gunshot wound to the leg, a local medical agency reported. The national police
tweeted that 25 officers were injured in the clashes. Peru has been shaken
by two months of protests by supporters of former president Pedro Castillo, who
was impeached and arrested after attempting to dissolve parliament and rule by
decree. Protesters demand that
Castillo's successor, Dina Boluarte, step down and that fresh elections be
held. In Arequipa, also in
the south, hundreds of people marched Thursday to the Plaza de Armas square. There were also
protests in Ayacucho and Pucallpa. Further north, in the
capital Lima, some 2,000 workers of the main Peruvian union, CGTP, marched
without incident through the streets towards the heavily-guarded Congress. - Families in
mourning - Earlier in Juliaca,
hundreds had gathered for a march that combined cries of grief, anti-government
slogans and protest chants. "Spilled blood
will never be forgotten," rang a message addressed to Boluarte as grieving
relatives dressed in black held up photos of dead protesters. "They took my son
from me by murdering him," Faustina Huanca, a 57-year-old informal vendor,
told AFP. "Two policemen
shot me at close range," said Diego Quispe, a 34-year-old freelance
worker. "I have more than 70 pellets all over my body, (the doctors) could
only extract eight in the first surgery." At least 47 civilians
and one police officer have been killed nationwide in clashes since the
protests broke out, according to Peru's human rights ombudsman. Protesters have
blocked roads, causing shortages of key food items, gas and other necessities
in many parts of the country.  Sixty-two national
roads remained blocked as of Thursday, according to officials.