With
questions raised over the legality of the military deployment to Rift Valley to
fight bandits since Parliament was not consulted, the Departmental Committee on
Defense Intelligence and Foreign Relations has summoned Interior Cabinet
Secretary Prof. Kithure Kindiki and his Defence counterpart Aden Duale. Committee
Chairman Nelson Koech avers that
the notice on the deployment only quoted Section 241A and B and left out C
which indicates that Parliament must be notified; this they say will feature in
the deliberations. “It is the responsibility of our committee to make
sure the law was followed to the letter, and that is why we thought to rest the
matter we would invite, not just the minister of Defense, but of Interior as
well so that they tell us how this was done, who is leading the operation, and
what is the cost implication to the country,” he said. This
comes as two suspected cattle rustlers were arrested and 23 guns recovered a
week after a joint operation by the Kenya Police and the Kenya Defence Forces (KDF)
was carried out in the six disturbed and dangerous' counties. Despite
the heightened security, the armed rustlers continued reigning terror,
attacking the security forces in Kainuk, Turkana County, with reports indicating
that some of the attackers were injured and are receiving treatment. For
two hours there was a fierce exchange of fire between the assailants and the
security forces, resulting in the arrest of two of them. Rift Valley Regional Commissioner Dr. Abdi Hassan said:
“The bandits are indomitable, they are daring anyone...the days are numbered,
they have come to an end. Anyone who dares security agencies will be met with
force.” With
the three-day amnesty to those wielding illegal firearms to hand them over to
government officers having lapsed, the Rift Valley Regional Commissioner
sounded a warning to the assailants in Baringo, Laikipia ,Elgeyo Marakwet and
West Pokot who were yet to heed to the directive. “We have recovered 23 firearms in Samburu and
Turkana County...amnesty ended, anyone willing to surrender will be allowed
to...the second phase is now flushing out the criminals,” he said. At
the same time, residents of Loborngare, Samburu County, held protests following
the sustained attacks by the raiders; this after the attackers struck three
families in the wee hours of Thursday, making away with 47 goats.  The
attack came after KDF officers visited the area to assess the security situation
before mounting an attack; residents now urging the government to ensure the
operation was successful.