A one of a kind
4-day Space conference kicked off in Nairobi on Tuesday, bringing together
scientists and astronauts keen on enabling human travel to the space for
all. The theme of the
conference dubbed ‘Nairobi Nexus 2023’ is ‘when space, purpose and culture
collide.’ It aims to ensure the innovations and ideas from space exploration
improve life on earth for everyone. The conference is
organised by the ‘100 Year Starship Initiative,’ an independent, inclusive,
long term global initiative established 10 years ago and led by former
astronaut Dr. Mae Jemison, who was also one of the key speakers at the event. The initiative
seeks to democratise space and help the world make informed choices regarding
climate change and soil use. Dr. Jemison says
her initiative seeks to bring inclusivity, the reason the conference was
brought to Nairobi and indeed Kenya, the cradle of human kind. "It is really
about making sure that we push for radical leaps in innovation, and using human
interstellar travel is something that will push that innovation. And so what
this Nexus event is about is pushing that, and bringing everyone together to start
to solve this thing. So what we are doing today is launching that connectedness
in the cradle of humankind," Dr. Jemison said. She added that in
10 years of the 100 Years Starship existence, the initiative has engaged
different stakeholders, among them governments and States to find ways in which
they can leverage on space economy, use data for humanity's benefit and make
informed decisions on curbing environmental degradation. Also at the launch
of the nexus was the acting Director General of the Kenya Space Agency,
Brigadier Hillary Kipkosgey, who said Kenya is keen on joining the world in
space exploration and demystify theories around the orbit. "We are
convicted that the delivery of these services needs to be underpinned by
enabling an indigenous space capability that also contributes to the national
economic goals and aspirations. Who owns space resonates well with us here in
Kenya as we make efforts to demystify space and to stake a claim to space
exploration" Brigadier Kipkosgey said. Philip Thigo, a
data and policy expert who also spoke at the conference, said Kenya is keen on
using data obtained from space exploration to grow its economy and expand space
democracy. "Kenya is one
of the very few countries in Sub-Saharan Africa that has a space society that
is purely convened by the private sector who invite government to participate.
And if we are to tackle climate change in a way that is sustainable, then I
think this is the community that can resolve that challenge" Thigo
added. Nexus 2023 is the
evolution of public symposiums hosted previously by 100YSS. It creates experiences
and transdisciplinary activities that stretch attendees’ imaginations. While considering
today’s cutting-edge technologies and future possibilities, attendees of the
conference have been challenged to discuss and take action on thought-provoking
frontiers of civilization, science, culture, space, technology, society, education,
sustainability and purpose both now and in the future. “Via Nexus,
everyone can be at the confluence of science and culture, collaboratively
sparking this grand evolution to expand beyond this beautiful planet we call
home, while also nurturing our Earth home where the vast majority of us will
live for untold generations to come,” Dr. Jemison added. She further said
the 100 Year Starship is transforming the approach to space exploration so that
all people may claim their place at the table and experience, re-imagine,
learn, celebrate and discuss the future of space and its immediate impacts on
the world today.  The conference saw
Kenyans enthusiastic about space exploration attend. Among them were students
from various institutions in the country.