Drama was on
Tuesday witnessed in Parliament as Nominated Senator Gloria Orwoba was kicked
out of a Senate Plenary session for wearing what appeared to be a stained
attire. Senator Orwoba had
attended the session in a white blazer, green top, and a matching white trouser
that was however seemingly sporting a pink stain. The matter was
raised on the floor of the House on a point of order by fellow Nominated
Senator Tabitha Mutinda, who sought directions from Speaker Amason Kingi on the
dress code. Senator Mutinda described Orwoba’s dressing
as “inappropriate” and “indecent”, going ahead to even assert that she was
disturbed as a fellow woman. “I stand seeking guidance on the Speaker’s
rule number 5 in regards to the dress code, and I need to seek advice if
Senator Gloria is appropriately dressed for the House,” she said. “As a woman and a Senator, I find it very
uncomfortable, very inappropriate, for our colleague Senator Gloria to step in
and you don’t understand if she’s on the normal woman cycle or it is faking it,
and it is so indecent. It disturbs me, as a woman, on what we indicate out
there to our younger generation that looks upon us on how we dress, as leaders,
in this House. There is a better way to bring this out.” Kitui Senator Enoch Wambua and his Narok
counterpart Ledama ole Kina agreed with Ms. Mutinda’s sentiments, opining that
Ms. Orwoba should – at the very least – have covered herself after noticing that she was on her period, as she alleged. “We have wives and daughters, and they go
through these cycles, but it’s a matter to be managed personally without
exposing it to other people. What Senator Gloria has done to this House is
disgrace, it is a lot of shame to this House. This must not be allowed to
happen,” said Wambua. Senator ole Kina went as far as to allege
that Ms. Orwoba was not actually on her menstrual cycle, but was presumably just
putting on a show to put across a point. While likening Ms. Orwoba’s antics to “picketing,”
ole Kina urged the Senator to bring to the floor of the House her agenda
formally as a motion to be discussed and passed or rejected. “It is quite evident that the distinguished
Senator is picketing. She’s not on her menstrual cycle, it is quite clear that
what she’s trying to share with the rest of the world is that she’s picketing,”
he said. “We see this thing on social media and
TikTok, we’re not blind or stupid. If a mature person realizes that they’re
going through something which is, culturally, taboo to be discussed, she would’ve
gone to the bathroom, covered herself, and even the other distinguished
Senators who are from the female gender here would’ve given her something to
wear.” Senator Orwoba, on her part, slammed her
colleagues who had criticised her noting that what she was undergoing was a
natural exercise for all women that one should not be shamed about. She went ahead to
accuse her fellow Senators of subjecting her to “period stigma,” which she says
affects many a young women in the country. “I think I’m dressed as per the standing
orders; I’m covered, I have a suit, I have collars, I’m just short of a tie. I’m
disappointed because the point of order that is being raised to try and attack
an accident that is natural...I have stained my clothes...I just want to know,
while we’re discussing this issue that is not even in the Order Paper, is it
because Senators are not women who have periods? Because then maybe I shouldn’t
be in this House,” she stated.  “This is the period stigma that is making our
girls kill themselves, we have a girl who killed herself because of the same
issue that I’m going through, and now I understand because it is the women who
are trying to make this a crime. Because maybe it’s Valentine’s Day? Because
maybe on Valentine’s Day we’re not supposed to have our periods? I’m shocked
that someone can stand here and say that the House has been disgraced, because
a woman has had her period?”